Thank you. When can the operation be carried through, Doctor? Have you ever thought you would like to be a man? Would it be better to be a man? It does not offend you that I can order you about? That I can make you stand up, sit down, move right or left, by merely telling you to do so? Upon me. That does not matter. On a human being, you must not, but I, too, am a robot. I am sorry, Miss, but a prior order from Sir must surely take precedence. Yes, Sir. Yes, Sir. It is a geometric representation, Sir, that fits the grain of the wood. I enjoy doing them, Sir. It makes the circuits of my brain somehow flow more easily. I've heard you use the word enjoy and the way you use it fits the I feel. I enjoy doing them, Sir. As you wish, Sir. Yes, Sir. Yes, sir. Pay for things, sir, which otherwise Sir would have to pay for. It would save him expense, sir. Thank you, Sir. Sir, it is kind of you to have allowed me to spend my money as I wished. Only by by your voluntary act, Sir. I do not believe the law would stopped you from keeping it all. Despite all expenses, and despite taxes, too, Sir, I have nearly six hundred thousand dollars. I want to give it to you, Sir. In exchange for something you can give me, Sir. My freedom, Sir. I wish to buy my freedom, Sir. Freedom is without price, Sir. Even the chance of freedom is worth the money. Your Honor. Would you wish to be a slave, Your Honor? Perhaps no more than I do now, Your Honor, but with greater joy. It has been said in this courtroom that only a human being can be free. It seems to me that only someone who wishes for freedom can be free. I wish for freedom. Are not human beings bound by their laws, Sir? Are not human bodies beautiful and functional, George? Yet you cover yourselves. I feel bare without clothes. I feel different, George. I know, George. There are robots doing every conceivable type of work. But none of them are free, George. Like grandfather... That would be pleasant, George, if Sir were still- Would you describe to me the route to the town library, sirs? I am Andrew Martin, sir. The head is not meant- I am well, George. What were they doing, Andrew? It was their intention in some way to dismember me. The were about to move me to a quiet spot and order me to dismember myself. I couldn't have hurt them, George. I could see they were not attacking you. How can they fear robots? I am a- I want to know more about human beings, about the world, about everything. And about robots, George. I want to write a history about robots. Not a history of robotics, George. A history of robots, by a robot. I want to explain how robots feel about what has happened since the first ones were allowed to work and live on Earth. George told me that day I was attacked that human beings have always been afraid of robots. As long as they are, the courts and the legislatures are not likely to work hard on behalf of robots. Should not something be done about public opinion? If you are busy, Paul, I am prepared to continue to wait. I hired an automatobile. I wasn't expecting any. My rights are protected. And only time, Paul. I'm sorry you are displeased. I'm approaching the end, Paul. The publisher is quite pleased. I don't know that he's necessarily pleased with the book as a book. I think he expects to sell many copies because it's written by a robot and that's what pleases him. I am not displeased. Let it sell for whatever reason, since it will mean money and I can use some. Little Miss was generous, and I'm sure I can count on the family to help me out further. But it is the royalties from the book on which I am counting to help me through the next step. I wish to see the head of US Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation. I have tried to make an appointment; but so far I have not been able to reach him. The Corporation did not cooperate with me in the writing of the book, so I am not surprised, you understand. Nevertheless, if you call them, you may be able to obtain an interview for me. I'm no more popular with them than you are, Andrew. But perhaps you can hint that by seeing me they may head off a campaign by Feingold and Martin to strengthen the rights of robots further. Yes, Paul, and I can't tell one. That is why you must call. Sir, nearly a century ago, I told by a Merton Mansky of this corporation that the mathematics governing the plotting of the positronic pathways was far too complicated to permit of any but approximate solutions and that, therefore, my own capacities were not fully predictable. Then you no longer manufacture robots like myself which are flexible and adaptable. The research I have done in connection with my book, indicates that I am the oldest robot presently in active operation. As the oldest robot in the world and the most flexible, am I not unusual enough to merit special treatment from the company? But that is exactly the point, I am a free robot and I own myself. Therefore I come to you and ask you to replace me. You cannot do this without the owner's consent. Nowadays, that consent is extorted as a condition of the lease, but in my time this did not happen. That's right, You have manufactured androids, haven't you? Robots that have the outward appearance of humans, complete to the texture of the skin? But the corporation retains its expertise, I assume. Since it does, I wish to request that I be replaced by an organic robot, an android. Why is it impossible? I will pay any reasonable fee, of course. Yes. You... mustn't. You'll never be able to prove... something... like m-m-m-m- Malice. Besides, I grow... stronger, better. It's the tr-tr-tr- Trauma. After all, there's never been such an op-op-op-... before. I will be going back to work. No, I live too long for any one career to seize me by the throat and never let me go. There was a time when I was primarily an artist, and I can still turn to that. And there was a time when I was a historian, and I can still turn to that: But now I wish to be a robobiologist. No. That would imply the study of positronic brains, and at the moment I lack the desire to do that. A robobiologist, it seems to me, would be concerned with the working of the body attached to that brain. A roboticist works with a metal body. I would be studying an organic humanoid body, of which I have the only one, as far as I know. It would seem so. What have they done? Is that more efficient? I suppose in the end the corporation will produce one vast brain controlling several billion robotic bodies All the eggs will be in one basket. Dangerous. Not proper at all. Paul! Unnecessary. I am designing a system for allowing androids- myself- to gain energy from the combustion of hydrocarbons, rather than from atomic cells. Yes. For a long time now, but I think I have finally designed an adequate combustion chamber for catalyzed controlled break- down. In some ways, perhaps. But the atomic cell is inhuman. You still can. But there remains myself, and I stay on Earth. True, but there doesn't seem to be much of the robot about you. What new request have you? To be still less a robot. Since I am so far organic, I wish an organic source of energy. I have here the plans... I did. Dr. Magdescu, you miss the entire point. You have no choice but to accede to my request. If such devices can be built into my body, they can be built into human bodies as well. The tendency to lengthen human life by prosthetic devices has already been remarked on. There are no devices better than the ones I have designed or am designing. As it happens, I control the patents by way of the firm of Feingold and Martin. We are quite capable of going into business for ourselves and of developing the kind of prosthetic devices that may end by producing human beings with many of the properties of robots. Your own business will then suffer. If, however, you operate on me now and agree to do so under similar circumstances in the future, you will receive permission to make use of the patents and control the technology of both robots and of the prosthetization of human beings. The initial leasing will not be granted, of course, until after the first operation is completed successfully, and after enough time has passed to demonstrate that it is indeed successful. I can wait a reasonable time, but only a reasonable time. I had every faith in the skill of the staff at US Robots. And I can eat now. Perhaps, if I did not expect to go further. Self- cleaning is not impossible. In fact, I am working on a device that will deal with solid food that may be expected to contain incombustible fractions- indigestible matter, so to speak, that will have to be discarded. Or the equivalent. Everything else. Insofar as they will fit my plans. My body is a canvas on which I intend to draw... We shall see. My brain has not suffered. I grew impatient. On the Moon, Simon, I was in charge of a research team of twenty human scientists. I gave orders that no one questioned. The Lunar robots deferred to me as they would to a human being. Why, then, am I not a human being? To be a human being de facto is not enough. I want not only to be treated as one, but to be legally identified as one. I want to be a human being de jure. In what way not? I have the shape of a human being and organs equivalent to those of a human being. My organs, act, are identical to some of those in a prosthetized human being. I have contributed artistically, literarily, and scientifically to human culture as much as any human being now alive. What more can one ask? To whom on the Legislature could I speak? Can you arrange a meeting? No. You arrange it. I want him to know that the firm of Feingold and Martin is backing me in this to the hilt. To the hilt, Simon. In one hundred and seventy- three years I have in one fashion or another contributed greatly to this firm. I have been under obligation to individual members of the firm in times past. I am not, now. It is rather the other way around now am calling in my debts. As simple a thing as my right to life, A robot can be dismantled at any time. Execution can only follow due process of law. There is no trial needed for my dismantling. Only the word of a human being in authority is needed to end me. Besides... besides... The truth is I want to be a man. I have wanted it through six generations of human beings. Even now? What precedent? I am the only free robot, the only one of my type, and there will never be another. You may consult US Robots. Will no one remember the technique of prosthetology, something that is almost entirely mine? If I decide to fight for my humanity, will you be on my side? Thank you, and I will ask no more. I intend to fight this though, whatever the consequences, and I will ask you for your help only for as long as you can give it. And do you think the Legislature will now grant me my humanity? What should we do, then? Do we have a majority? I know, and it distresses me. You said once you would abandon me if it came to that. Why have you not done so? Is there no way we can change minds, Chee? Emotional antipathy is not a valid reason for voting one way or the other. It all comes down to the brain, then, but must we leave it at the level of cells versus positrons? Is there no way of forcing a functional definition? Must we say that a brain is made of this or that? May we not say that a brain is something -anything -capable of a certain level of thought? If we could get at the source of their antipathy, the very source- I don't know, If I could bring myself... I order you to carry through the operation on me. I am grateful for your skill at delay. It gave me the time I needed, and I took the gamble I had to. I couldn't tell you, or even the people at Feingold and Martin. I was sure I would be stopped. See here, if it is the brain that is at issue, isn't the greatest difference of all the matter of immortality. Who really cares what a brain looks like or is built of or how it was formed. What matters is that human brain cells die, must die. Even if every other organ in the body is maintained or replaced, the brain cells, which cannot be replaced without changing and therefore killing the personality, must eventually die. My own positronic pathways have lasted nearly two centuries without perceptible change, and can last for centuries more. Isn't that the fundamental barrier: human beings can tolerate an immortal robot, for it doesn't matter how long a machine lasts, but cannot tolerate an immortal human being since their own mortality is endurable only so long as it is universal. And for that reason they won't make me a human being. I have removed that problem. Decades ago, my positronic brain was connected to organic nerves. Now, one last operation has arranged that connection in such a way that slowly- quite slowly- the potential is being drained from my pathways. No, I have chosen between the death of my body and the death of my aspirations and desires. To have let my body live at the cost of the greater death is what would have violated the Third Law. It can't be done. Too much damage was done. I have a year to live- more or less. I will last through the two hundredth anniversary of my construction. I was weak enough to arrange that. If it brings me humanity, that will be worth it. If it doesn't, it will bring an end to striving and that will be worth it, too. Little miss. I am not certain, sir, that I understand how or upon whom such an operation could be performed. But I am a robot, sir. It would be better, sir, to be a better surgeon. I could not so if I were a man, but only if I were a more advanced robot. would be pleased to be a more advanced robot. It is my pleasure to please you, sir. If your orders were to interfere with my functioning with respect to you or to any other human being, I would not obey you. The First Law, concerning duty to human safety, would take precedence over the Second relating to obedience. Otherwise, obedience is my pleasure. Now, upon whom am I to perform this operation? But that is impossible. It is patently a damaging operation. I must not inflict damage.
