Surgeon
I am not certain, sir, that I understand how or upon whom such an operation could be performed. But I am a robot, sir. It would be better, sir, to be a better surgeon. I could not so if I were a man, but only if I were a more advanced robot. would be pleased to be a more advanced robot. It is my pleasure to please you, sir. If your orders were to interfere with my functioning with respect to you or to any other human being, I would not obey you. The First Law, concerning duty to human safety, would take precedence over the Second relating to obedience. Otherwise, obedience is my pleasure. Now, upon whom am I to perform this operation? But that is impossible. It is patently a damaging operation. I must not inflict damage.

Mansky
Robotics is not an exact art, Mr. Martin, I cannot explain it to you in detail, but the mathematics governing the plotting of the positronic pathways is far too complicated to permit of any but approximate solutions. Naturally, since we build everything around the Three Laws, those are incontrovertible. We will, of course, replace your robot- Strange. Of course, we're attempting generalized pathways these days. Really creative, you think? He did that? The luck of the draw. Something in the pathways. Probably not. Nothing like this has ever been reported. I suspect that the company would like to have your robot back for study.

Boys on the street
It's a robot. It's wearing clothes. It's the free robot. They have a robot at the old Martin place who isn't owned by anybody. Why else would it be wearing clothes? Ask it. Are you the Martin robot? Take off your clothes. Robots don't wear clothes. Just drop them. If it doesn't belong to anyone, it could be ours as much as someone else's. Anyway, who's to object to anything we do. We're not damaging property. Stand on your head. That's an order. If you don't know how, try anyway. Just lie there. We can take him apart. Ever take a robot apart? Will he let us? How can he stop us? He's heavy. I think we'll need tools to do the job. We could order him to take himself apart. It would be fun to watch him try. Yes, but let's get him off the road. If someone comes along- That your robot, Mac? We politely asked him to take his clothes off. What's that to you if you don't own him. What are you going to do, pudgy? Attack us?

John Finegold
This is beautiful. I've already heard the news. Isn't this a carving made by your
robot? The one you've brought with you. I can't say. I'm not a collector of such things. Good heavens, he's making you rich, Gerald. The robot? Legal ... ? There are no precedents, Gerald. How did your robot sign the necessary papers? Well, we can set up a trust to handle all finances in his name and that will place a layer of insulation between him and the hostile world. Beyond that, my advice is you do nothing. No one has stopped you so far. If anyone objects, let him bring suit. For a retainer, certainly. Something like that. Andrew, are you pleased that you have money? What do you plan to do with it?

Regional Attorney/Judge
The word 'freedom' has no meaning when applied to robot. Only a human being can be free. Amanda Laura Martin Charney may approach the bench. I see your point, Mrs. Charney. The fact is that there is no binding law in this respect and no precedent. There is, however, the unspoken assumption that only a man may enjoy freedom. I can make new law here, subject to reversal in a higher court; but I cannot lightly run counter to that assumption. Let me address the robot Andrew! Why do you want to be free, Andrew? In what way will this matter to you? But you are not a slave. You are a perfectly good robot- a genius of a robot, I am given to understand, capable of an artistic expression that can be matched nowhere. What more could you do if you were free? There is no right to deny freedom to any object with a mind advanced enough to grasp the concept and desire the state.

Miss
We order you to play with us and you must follow orders. Daddy just said he hoped you would take care of the cleaning. That's not much of an order. I order you.

Sir (Gerald)
Where did you really get this, Mandy? Did you do this, Andrew? The design, too? From what did you copy the design? Make something out of this, Andrew. Anything you want to. These are amazing productions, Andrew. Enjoy? Not at all, There is no question of failure on his part. He performs his assigned duties perfectly. The point is he also carves wood in exquisite fashion and never the same twice. He produces works of art. See for yourself. Can you do it again? Good! I don't in the least mind Andrew's being the only one. Not a chance! Forget it. Let's go home, now. What do you think of this, John? Yes, Andrew does them. Don't you, Andrew? How much would you pay for that, John? Would you believe I have been offered two hundred and fifty dollars for that small thing. Andrew has made chairs that have sold for five hundred dollars. There's two hundred thousand dollars in the bank from Andrew's products. Half rich, Half of it is in an account in the name of Andrew Martin. That's right, and I want to know if it's legal. He can sign his name. Now, is there anything further that ought to be done? And will you take the case if the suit is brought? How much? Fair enough. The new models aren't as good as you are, Andrew, The new robots are worthless. The company has learned to make the pathways more precise, more closely on the nose, more deeply on the track. The new robots don't shift. They do what they're' designed for and never stray. I like you better. And it's your doing, Andrew, don't you forget that. I am certain Mansky put an end to generalized pathways as soon as he had good look at you. He didn't like the unpredictability. Do you know how many times he asked for you back so he could place you under study? Nine times! I never let him have you, though; and now that he's retired, we may have some peace. It was your money, Andrew. The law won't persuade me to do wrong, Andrew. I know that, Andrew. I won't take it, Andrew. Oh? What is that, Andrew? Your- For God's sake! Talking about it for years, have you? He doesn't know what freedom is. He's a robot. The law won't take that attitude. See here you! I can't free you except by doing it legally. If this gets into the courts, you not only won't get your freedom but the law will take official cognizance of your money. They'll tell you that a robot has no right to earn money. Is this rigmarole worth losing your money? I don't want your damned money, Andrew. I'll take it only because you won't feel free otherwise. From now on, you can select your own jobs and do them as you please. I will give you no orders, except this one: Do as you please. But I am still responsible for you. That's part of the court order. I hope you understand that. Then how is he free? I'm not going to argue. Andrew, Andrew- Don't help me, George. I'm only dying; I'm not crippled. Andrew, I'm glad you're free. I just wanted to tell you that.

Little Miss (Mandy)
That's nice, Andrew. I'll show it to Daddy. Come on, Dad, if anyone wants one of them, let him pay for it. It's worth it. It isn't like you to be greedy, Mandy. Not for us, Dad. For the artist. Dad, why are you taking this as a personal affront? He'll still be here. He'll still be loyal. He can't help that; it's built in. All he wants is a form of words. He wants to be called free. Is that so terrible? Hasn't he earned this chance? Heavens, he and I have been talking about it for years! Yes, and over and over again he postponed it for fear he would hurt you. I made him put the matter up to you. Dad, you don't know him. He's read everything in the library. I don't know what he feels inside, but I don't know what you feel inside either. When you talk to him you'll find he reacts to the various abstractions as you and I do, and what else counts? If someone else's reactions are like your own, what more can you ask for? Thank you, Your Honor. I am not a lawyer and I don't know the proper way of phrasing things, but I hope you will listen to my meaning and ignore the words. Let's understand what it means to be free in Andrew's case. In some ways, he is free. I think it's at least twenty years since anyone in the Martin family gave him an order to do something that we felt he might not do of his own accord. But we can, if we wish, give order to do anything, couching it as harshly as we wish, because he is a machine that belongs to us. Why should we be in a position to do so, when he has served us so long, so faithfully, and earned so much money for us? He owes us nothing more. The debt is entirely on the other side. Even if we were legally forbidden to place Andrew in involuntary servitude, he would still serve us voluntarily. Making him free be a trick of words only, but it would mean much to him. It would give him everything and cost us nothing. Don't be irascible, Dad. The responsibility is no great chore. You know you won't have to do a thing. The Three Laws still hold. He may not have been friendly to you toward the end, Andrew, but he was old, you know; and it hurt him that you should want to be free. I would never have been free without him, Little Miss. George, that's horrible. Who were those young ruffians? They might have. You're a lawyer, George; and if you're well off, it's entirely due to the talents of Andrew. It was the money he earned that is the foundation of everything we have. He provides the continuity for this family, and I will not have him treated as a wind-up toy. You have been good to us, Andrew.

George/Little Sir
A free robot doesn't call anyone Little Sir, I call you Andrew. You must call me
George. But why do you want trousers, Andrew? Your body is so beautifully functional it's a shame to cover it- especially when you needn't worry about either temperature control or modesty. An the material doesn't cling properly- not on metal. For warmth, for cleanliness, for protection, for decorativeness, None of that applies to you. Different! Andrew, there are millions of robots on Earth now. In this region, according to the last census, there are almost many robots as there are men. And none of them wear clothes. She's got me, Andrew. I'll be running for the legislature next year. Like grandfather she says, like grandson. I mean that I, George, the grandson, will be like Sir, the grandfather, who was in the legislature once. Alive, Yes, I think of the old monster now and then too. Andrew, has something gone wrong? Then stand up. What happened to your clothes? He's no one's robot. What's been going on here. No. I don't have to. This robot has been with my family for over seventy five years. He knows us and he values more than he values anyone else. I am going to tell him that You two are threatening my life and that you plan to kill me. I will ask him defend me. In choosing between me and you two, he will me. Do you know what will happen to you when he attacks you? Andrew, I am in danger and about to come to harm from these young men. Move toward them! All right, Andrew, relax. I didn't order you to attack them. I only told you to move towards them. Their own fears did the rest. It's a disease of mankind, one which has not yet been cured. But never mind that. What the devil are you doing here, Andrew? Good thing I found your note. I was just on the point of turning back and hiring a helicopter when I found you. How did you get it in your head to go to the library? I would have brought you any books you needed. Free robot. Yes, yes. All right, what did you want in the library? Well, let's walk home. But pick up your clothes first. Andrew, there are a million books on robotics and all of them include histories of the science. The world is growing saturated not only with robots but with information about robots. I don't know. What difference does it make? In the end they, did not do any damage. What would you have me do, Mother? I said you're a lawyer. Don't you listen? You set up a test case somehow, and you force the regional courts to declare for robot rights and get the legislature to pass the necessary bills. Carry the whole thing to the World Court, if you have to. I'll be watching George, and I'll tolerate no shirking. I'll try not to. If, by virtue of the Second Law, we can demand of any robot unlimited obedience in all respects not involving harm to a human being, then any human being, any being, has a fearsome power over any robot, any robot. In particular, since Second Law supersedes Third Law, any human can use the law of obedience to overcome the law of self protection. He can order any robot to damage itself or even to destroy itself for any reason, or for no reason. Is this just? Would we treat an animal so? Even an inanimate which had given us good service has a claim on our consideration. And a robot is not insensitive; it is not an animal. It can think well enough so that it can talk to us, reason with us, joke with us. Can we treat them as friends, can we work together with them, and not give them some of the fruits of that friendship, some of the benefits of co-working? If a man has the right to give a robot any order that does not involve harm to a human being, he should have the decency never to give a robot any order that involves harm to a robot, unless human safety absolutely requires it. With great power goes great responsibility, and if the robots have Three Laws to protect men,is it too much to ask that men have a law or two to protect robots?

Smythe-Robinson
That was a century ago. Sir. It is true no longer. Our robots are made with precision now and are trained precisely to their jobs. You would be much more displeased if it were to improvise. No longer. The oldest presently, and the oldest ever. The oldest that will ever be. No robot is useful after the twenty fifth year. They are called in and replaced with newer models. Not at all, Your unusualness is an embarrassment to the company. If you were on lease, instead of having been an outright sale through some mischance, you would long since have been replaced. How can I replace you for you? If I replace you, as robot, how can I donate the new robot to you as owner since in the very act of replacement you cease to exist. Yes, we have. They worked perfectly well, with their synthetic fibrous skins and tendons. There was virtually no metal anywhere except for the brain, yet they were nearly as tough as metal robots. They were tougher, weight for weight. None, They were much more expensive than metal models and a market survey showed they would not be accepted. They looked too human. Quite impossible! We do not manufacture androids. Nevertheless, the manufacture of androids is against public policy. Nevertheless, we do not manufacture them- and we will not. Only too well. U.S. Robots understood that from the start. Your father's firm unfortunately did not. You are trying to force- Well...

Paul
Just don't trip over it on stage, Dad. Come in, Andrew. I'm sorry I made you wait, but there was something I had to finish. Come in, you had said you wanted to talk to me, but I didn't know you meant here in town. I can make some time. Did you come alone? Any trouble? Andrew, I've explained that the law is unenforceable, at least under most conditions. And if you insist on wearing clothes, you'll run into trouble eventually; just like that first time. Well, look at it this way: you are virtually a living legend, Andrew, and you are too valuable in many different ways for you to have any right to take chances with yourself. By the way, how's the book coming? Good! Only human, I'm afraid. Grandmother left you- What next step is that? Cooperation is the last thing you can expect. They didn't cooperate with us in our great fight for robot rights. Quite the reverse, and you can see why. Give a robot rights and people may not want to buy them. Wouldn't that be a lie, Andrew? Ah, you can't lie, but you can urge me to tell a lie, is that it? You're getting more human all the time, Andrew. Yes, with the result that my receptionist must be guided at every point once events depart from the conventional, however slightly. No robot as presently manufactured is useful after the twentieth year, Andrew is quite exceptional in this respect. Not at all difficult, The seat of Andrew's personality is his positronic brain and it is the one part that cannot be replaced without creating a new robot. The positronic brain, therefore, is Andrew the owner. Every other part of the robotic body can be replaced without affecting the robot's personality, and those other parts are the brain's possessions. Andrew, I should say, wants to supply his brain with a new robotic body. I didn't know that. How many are on the market? Good Lord! You do not choose to manufacture androids, That is not the same as being unable to manufacture them. There is no law against it. Mr. Smythe-Robertson, Andrew is a free robot who comes under the purview of the law guaranteeing robot rights. You are aware of this, I take it? This robot, as a free robot, chooses to wear clothes. This results in his being frequently humiliated by thoughtless human beings despite the law against the humiliation of robots. It is difficult to prosecute vague offenses that don't meet with the general disapproval
of those who must decide on guilt and innocence. My father is dead now, but what I see is that we have here a clear offense with a clear target. What are you talking about? My client, Andrew Martin- he has just become my client- is a free robot who is entitled to ask U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation for the right of replacement, which the corporation supplies to anyone who owns a robot for more than twenty- five years. In fact, the corporation insists on such replacement. The positronic brain of my client, is the owner of the body of my client -which is certainly more than twenty-five years old. The positronic brain demands the replacement of the body and offers to pay any reasonable fee for an android body as that replacement. If you refuse the request, my client undergoes humiliation and we will sue. While public opinion would not ordinarily support the claim of a robot in such a case, may I remind you that U.S. Robots is not popular with the public generally. Even those who most use and profit from robots are suspicious of the corporation. This may be a hangover from the days when robots were widely feared. It may be resentment against the power and wealth of U.S. Robots, which has a worldwide monopoly. Whatever the cause may be, the resentment exists. I think you will find that you would prefer not to be faced with a lawsuit, particularly since my client is wealthy and will live for many more centuries and will have no reason to refrain from fighting the battle forever. I force you to do nothing, If you wish to refuse to accede to my client's reasonable request, you may by all means do so and we will leave without another word. But we will sue, as is certainly our right, and you will find that you will eventually lose. I see that you are going to accede, You may hesitate but you will come to it in the end. Let me assure you, then, of one further point: If, in the process of transferring my client's positronic brain from his present body to an organic one, there is any damage, however slight, then I will never rest until I've nailed the corporation to the ground. I will, if necessary, take every possible step to mobilize public opinion against the corporation if one brainpath of my client's platinum-iridium essence is scrambled. Do you agree to all this, Andrew? They've damaged you, Andrew. We'll have to institute suit! Malice? Tremble? That means you are well. What will you be doing? Another book? A robopsychologist, you mean. Wouldn't that be a roboticist? You narrow your field, As an artist, all conception is yours; as a historian you deal chiefly with robots;: as a robobiologist, you will deal with yourself. It's a pity you're no longer working on the history of robots. I understand U.S. Robots is adopting a radically new policy. They are manufacturing central computers, gigantic positronic brains, really, which communicate with anywhere from a dozen to a thousand robots by microwave. The robots themselves have no brains at all. They are the limbs of the gigantic brain, and the two are physically separate. U.S. Robots claims it is. Smythe-Robertson established the new direction before he died, however, and it's my notion that it's a lash at you. U.S. Robots is determined that they will make no robots that will give them the type of trouble you have, and for that reason they separate brain and body. The brain will have no body to wish changed; the body will have no brain to wish anything. It's amazing, Andrew, the influence you have on the history of robots. It was your artistry that encouraged U.S. Robots to make robots more precise and specialized; it was your freedom that resulted in the establishment of the principle robotic rights; it was your insistence on an android body that made U.S. Robots switch to brain-body separation. I think you're right, but I don't suspect it will come to pass for a century at least and I won't live to see it. In fact, I may not live to see next year. Men are mortal, Andrew. We're not like you. It doesn't matter too much, but it does make it important to assure you on one point. I'm the last of the human Martins. The money I control personally will be left to the trust in your name, and as far as anyone can foresee the future, you will be economically secure. Let's not argue. That's the way it's going to be. Now, what are you working on? So that they will breathe and eat? How long have you been pushing in that direction? But why, Andrew? The atomic cell is surely infinitely better.

Alvin Magdescu
I know you, of course, and I'm rather pleased to see you. You're our most notorious product and it's a pity old Smythe-Robertson was so set against you. We could have done a great deal with you. No, I don't think so. We're past the time. We've had robots on Earth for over a century, but that's changing. It will be back to space with them, and those that stay here won't be brained. This is remarkably ingenious. Who thought of all this? It would amount to a major overhaul of your body, and an experimental one, since such a thing has never been attempted before. I advise against it. Remain as you are. I'm not the one to decide something like this. That's a corporate decision that would take time. I was very much against the operation, Andrew, but not for the reasons you might think. I was not in the least against the experiment, if it had been on someone else. I hated risking your positronic brain. Now that you have the positronic pathways interacting with simulated nerve pathways, it might have been difficult to rescue the brain intact if the body had gone bad. Well, you can sip olive oil. It will mean occasional cleanings of the combustion chamber, as we have explained to you. Rather an uncomfortable touch, I should think. You would then have to develop an anus. What else, Andrew...? Genitalia, too. A man? That's a puny ambition, Andrew. You're better than a man. You've gone downhill from the moment you opted to become organic. No, it hasn't. I'll grant you that. But, Andrew, the whole new breakthrough in prosthetic devices made possible by your patents is being marketed under your name. You're recognized as the inventor and you're being honored for it- as you should be. Why play further games with your body?

Andrew Martin
Thank you. When can the operation be carried through, Doctor? Have you ever thought you would like to be a man? Would it be better to be a man? It does not offend you that I can order you about? That I can make you stand up, sit down, move right or left, by merely telling you to do so? Upon me. That does not matter. On a human being, you must not, but I, too, am a robot. I am sorry, Miss, but a prior order from Sir must surely take precedence. Yes, Sir. Yes, Sir. It is a geometric representation, Sir, that fits the grain of the wood. I enjoy doing them, Sir. It makes the circuits of my brain somehow flow more easily. I ve heard you use the word 'enjoy' and the way you use it fits the I feel. I enjoy doing them, Sir. As you wish, Sir. Yes, Sir. Yes, sir. Pay for things, sir, which otherwise Sir would have to pay for. It would save him expense, sir. Thank you, Sir. Sir, it is kind of you to have allowed me to spend my money as I wished. Only by by your voluntary act, Sir. I do not believe the law would stopped you from keeping it all. Despite all expenses, and despite taxes, too, Sir, I have nearly six hundred thousand dollars. I want to give it to you, Sir. In exchange for something you can give me, Sir. My freedom, Sir. I wish to buy my freedom, Sir. Freedom is without price, Sir. Even the chance of freedom is worth the money. Your Honor. Would you wish to be a slave, Your Honor? Perhaps no more than I do now, Your Honor, but with greater joy. It has been said in this courtroom that only a human being can be free. It seems to me that only someone who wishes for freedom can be free. I wish for freedom. Are not human beings bound by their laws, Sir? Are not human bodies beautifull functional, George? Yet you cover yourselves. I feel bare without clothes. I feel different, George. I know, George. There are robots doing every conceivable type of work. But none of them are free, George. Like grandfather... That would be pleasant, George, if Sir were still- Would you describe to me the route to the town library, sirs? I am Andrew Martin, sir. The head is not meant- I am well, George. What were they doing, Andrew? It was their intention in some way to dismember me. The were about to move me to a quiet spot and order me to dismember myself. I couldn't have hurt them, George. I could see they were not attacking you. How can they fear robots? I am a- I want to know more about human beings, about the world, about everything. And about robots, George. I want to write a history about robots. Not a history of robotics, George. A history of robots, by a robot. I want to explain how robots feel about what has happened since the first ones were allowed to work and live on Earth. George told me that day I was attacked that human beings have always been afraid of robots. As long as they are, the courts and the legislatures are not likely to work hard on behalf of robots. Should not something be done about public opinion? If you are busy, Paul, I am prepared to continue to wait. I hired an automatobile. I wasn't expecting any. My rights are protected. And only time, Paul. I'm sorry you are displeased. I'm approaching the end, Paul. The publisher is quite pleased. I don't know that he's necessarily pleased with the book as a book. I think he expects to sell many copies because it's written by a robot and that's what pleases him. I am not displeased. Let it sell for whatever reason, since it will mean money and I can use some. Little Miss was generous, and I'm sure I can count on the family to help me out further. But it is the royalties from the book on which I am counting to help me through the next step. I wish to see the head of U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men Corporation. I have tried to make an appointment; but so far I have not been able to reach him. The Corporation did not cooperate with me in the writing of the book, so I am not surprised, you understand. Nevertheless, if you call them, you may be able to obtain an interview for me. I'm no more popular with them than you are, Andrew. But perhaps you can hint that by seeing me they may head off a campaign by Feingold and Martin to strengthen the rights of robots further. Yes, Paul, and I can't tell one. That is why you must call. Sir, nearly a century ago, I told by a Merton Mansky of this corporation that the mathematics governing the plotting of the positronic pathways was far too complicated to permit of any but approximate solutions and that, therefore, my own capacities were not fully predictable. Then you no longer manufacture robots like myself which are flexible and adaptable. The research I have done in connection with my book, indicates that I am the oldest robot presently in active operation. As the oldest robot in the world and the most flexible, am I not unusual enough to merit special treatment from the company? But that is exactly the point, I am a free robot and I own myself. Therefore I come to you and ask you to replace me. You cannot do this without the owner's consent. Nowadays, that consent is extorted as a condition of the lease, but in my time this did not happen. That's right, You have manufactured androids, haven't you? Robots that have the outward appearance of humans, complete to the texture of the skin? But the corporation retains its expertise, I assume. Since it does, I wish to request that I be replaced by an organic robot, an android. Why is it impossible? I will pay any reasonable fee, of course. Yes. You... mustn't. You'll never be able to prove... something... like m-m-m-m- Malice. Besides, I grow... stronger, better. It's the tr-tr-tr- Trauma. After all, there's never been such an op-op-op-... before. I will be going back to work. No, I live too long for any one career to seize me by the throat and never let me go. There was a time when I was primarily an artist, and I can still turn to that. And there was a time when I was a historian, and I can still turn to that: But now I wish to be a robobiologist. No. That would imply the study of positronic brains, and at the moment I lack the desire to do that. A robobiologist, it seems to me, would be concerned with the working of the body attached to that brain. A roboticist works with a metal body. I would be studying an organic humanoid body, of which I have the only one, as far as I know. It would seem so. What have they done? Is that more efficient? I suppose in the end the corporation roduce one vast brain controlling several billion robotic bodies All the eggs will be in one basket. Dangerous. Not proper at all. Paul! Unnecessary. I am designing a system for allowing androids- myself- to gain energy from the combustion of hydrocarbons, rather than from atomic cells. Yes. For a long time now, but I think I have finally designed an adequate combustion chamber for catalyzed controlled break- down. In some ways, perhaps. But the atomic cell is inhuman. You still can. But there remains myself, and I stay on Earth. True, but there doesn't seem to be much of the robot about you. What new request have you? To be still less a robot. Since I am so far organic, I wish an organic source of energy. I have here the plans... I did. Dr. Magdescu, you miss the entire point. You have no choice but to accede to my request. If such devices can be built into my body, they can be built into human bodies as well. The tendency to lengthen human life by prosthetic devices has already been remarked on. There are no devices better than the ones I have designed or am designing. As it happens, I control the patents by way of the firm of Feingold and Martin. We are quite capable of going into business for ourselves and of developing the kind of prosthetic devices that may end by producing human beings with many of the properties of robots. Your own business will then suffer. If, however, you operate on me now and agree to do so under similar circumstances in the future, you will receive permission to make use of the patents and control the technology of both robots and of the prosthetization of human beings. The initial leasing will not be granted, of course, until after the first operation is com- pleted successfully, and after enough time has passed to demonstrate that it is indeed successful. I can wait a reasonable time, but only a reasonable time. I had every faith in the skill of the staff at U.S. Robots. And I can eat now. Perhaps, if I did not expect to go further. Self-cleaning is not impossible. In fact, I am working on a device that will deal with solid food that may be expected to contain incombustible fractions- indigestible matter, so to speak, that will have to be discarded. Or the equivalent. Everything else. Insofar as they will fit my plans. My body is a canvas on which I intend to draw... We shall see. My brain has not suffered. I grew impatient. On the Moon, Simon, I was in charge of a research team of twenty human scientists. I gave orders that no one questioned. The Lunar robots deferred to me as they would to a human being. Why, then, am I not a human being? To be a human being de facto is not enough. I want not only to be treated as one, but to be legally identified as one. I want to be a human being de jure. In what way not? I have the shape of a human being and organs equivalent to those of a human being. My organs, act, are identical to some of those in a prosthetized human being. I have contributed artistically, literarily, and scientifically to human culture as much as any human being now alive. What more can one ask? To whom on the Legislature could I speak? Can you arrange a meeting? No. You arrange it. I want him to know that the firm of
Feingold and Martin is backing me in this to the hilt. To the hilt, Simon. In one hundred and seventy- three years I have in one fashion or another contributed greatly to this firm. I have been under obligation to individual members of the firm in times past. I am not, now. It is rather the other way around now am calling in my debts. As simple a thing as my right to life, A robot can be dismantled at any time. Execution can only follow due process of law. There is no trial needed for my dismantling. Only the word of a human being in authority is needed to end me. Besides... besides... The truth is I want to be a man. I have wanted it through six generations of human beings. Even now? What precedent? I am the only free robot, the only one of my type, and there will never be another. You may consult U.S. Robots. Will no one remember the technique of prosthetology, something that is almost entirely mine? If I decide to fight for my humanity, will you be on my side? Thank you, and I will ask no more. I intend to fight this though, whatever the consequences, and I will ask you for your help only for as long as you can give it. And do you think the Legislature will now grant me my humanity? What should we do, then? Do we have a majority? I know, and it distresses me. You said once you would abandon me if it came to that. Why have you not done so? Is there no way we can change minds, Chee? Emotional antipathy is not a valid reason for voting one way or the other. It all comes down to the brain, then, but must we leave it at the level of cells versus positrons? Is there no way of forcing a functional definition? Must we say that a brain is made of this or that? May we not say that a brain is something -anything -capable of a certain level of thought? If we could get at the source of their antipathy, the very source- I don't know, If I could bring myself... I order you to carry through the operation on me. I am grateful for your skill at delay. It gave me the time I needed, and I took the gamble I had to. I couldn't tell you, or even the people at Feingold and Martin. I was sure I would be stopped. See here, if it is the brain that is at issue, isn't the greatest difference of all the matter of immortality. Who really cares what a brain looks like or is built of or how it was formed. What matters is that human brain cells die, must die. Even if every other organ in the body is maintained or replaced, the brain cells, which cannot be replaced without changing and therefore killing the personality, must eventually die. My own positronic pathways have lasted nearly two centuries without perceptible change, and can last for centuries more. Isn't that the fundamental barrier: human beings can tolerate an immortal robot, for it doesn't matter how long a machine lasts, but cannot tolerate an immortal human being since their own mortality is endurable only so long as it is universal. And for that reason they won't make me a human being. I have removed that problem. Decades ago, my positronic brain was connected to organic nerves. Now, one last operation has arranged that connection in such a way that slowly- quite slowly- the potential is being drained from my pathways. No, I have chosen between the death of my body and the death of my aspirations and desires. To have let my body live at the cost of the greater death is what would have violated the Third Law. It can't be done. Too much damage was done. I have a year to live- more or less. I will last through the two-hundredth anniversary of my construction. I was weak enough to arrange that. If it brings me humanity, that will be worth it. If it doesn't, it will bring an end to striving and that will be worth it, too. Little miss.

Simon DeLong
We had been told you were returning, Andrew, but we were not expecting you till next week. My dear Andrew, as you have just explained, you are treated as a human being by both
robots and human beings. You are, therefore, a human being de facto. Now, that is another matter, There we would run into human prejudice and into the undoubted fact that, however much you may be like a human being, you are not a human being. I myself would ask nothing more. The trouble is that it would take an act of the Warid Legislature to define you as a human being. Frankly, I wouldn't expect that to happen. To the Chairman of the Science and Technology Committee, perhaps. But you scarcely need an intermediary. In your position, you can- Well, now- I will do what I can. We've done two things, Andrew, both of which are good. First of all, we have established the fact that no number of artificial parts in the human body causes it to cease being a human body. Secondly, we have engaged public opinion in the question in such a way as to put it fiercely on the side of a broad interpretation of humanity, since there is not a human being in existence who does not hope for prosthetics if they will keep him alive. As to that, I cannot be optimistic. There remains the one organ which the World Court has used as the criterion of humanity. Human beings have an organic cellular brain and robots have a platinum-iridium positronic brain if they have one at all- and you certainly have a positronic brain. No, Andrew, don't get that look in your eye. We lack the knowledge to duplicate the work of a cellular brain in artificial structures close enough to the organic type as to allow it within the court's decision. Not even you could do it. Make the attempt, of course. Congresswoman Li-hsing will be side and a growing number of other congresspeople. The President will undoubtedly go along with a majority of the Legislature in this matter. No. Far from it. But we might get one if the public will allow its desire for a broad interpretation of humanity to extend to you. A small chance, I admit; but if you do not wish to give up, we must gamble for it. 

Chee Li-hsing
I sympathize with your wish for full human rights. There have been times in history when segments of the human population fought for full human rights. What rights, however, can you possibly want that you do not have? A human being can be executed at any time. The Legislature can pass a law declaring you one. They could pass a law declaring that a stone statue be defined as a man. Whether they will actually do so is, however, as likely in the first case as the second. Congresspeople are as human as the rest of the population and there is always that element of suspicion against robots. Even now. We would all allow the fact that you have earned the prize of humanity, and yet there would remain the fear of setting an undesirable precedent. Never is a long word, Andrew- or, if you prefer, Mr. Martin- since I will gladly give you my personal accolade as man. You find that most congresspeople will not be so willing to set the .·edent, no matter how meaningless such a precedent might be. Mr. Martin, you have my sympathy, but I cannot tell you to hope. Indeed... Indeed, if the issue grows too heated, there might well arise a certain sentiment, both inside the Legislature and outside, for that dismantling you mentioned. Doing away with you could turn out to be the easiest way solving the dilemma. Consider that before deciding to push matters. It may seem cruel, but they won't. Or if they do, it will be remembered against you. People will say you did it only for yourself. It will be said it was part of a campaign to roboticize human beings, or to humanify robots; and in either case evil and vicious. You have never been part of a political hate campaign, Mr. Martin; but I tell you that you would be the object of vilification of a kind neither you nor I would credit, and there would be people to believe it all. Mr. Martin, let your life be. I will be- insofar as I can be. If at any time such a stand would appear to threaten my political future, I might have to abandon you, since it is not an issue I feel to be at
the very root of my beliefs. I am trying to be honest with you. We've gone as far as we can, Andrew. We'll try once more after recess, but, to be honest, defeat is certain and then the whole thing will have to be given up. All my recent efforts have only earned me certain defeat in the the coming congressional campaign. One can change one's mind, you know. Somehow, abandoning you became a higher price than I cared to pay for just one more term. As it is, I've been in the Legislature for over a quarter of a century. It's enough. We've changed all that are amenable to reason. The rest- the majority- cannot be moved from their emotional antipathies. I know that, Andrew, but they don't advance emotional antipathy as their reason. Won't work, Your brain is manmade, the human brain is not. Your brain is constructed, theirs developed. To any human being who is intent on keeping up the barrier between himself and a robot, those differences are a steel wall a mile high and a mile thick. After all your years, you are still trying to reason out the human being. Poor Andrew, don't be angry, but it's the robot in you that drives you in that direction. The final vote will come this week, Andrew. I've been able to delay it no longer, and we must lose. And that will be it, Andrew. What gamble is this? What is it you're leading up to, Andrew? Do you mean you've arranged to die, Andrew? You can't have. That violates the Third Law. Andrew, it won't work! Change it back. How can it be worth it? Andrew, you're a fool.

World President
Fifty years ago, you were declared The Sesquicentennial Robot, Andrew. Today we declare you The Bicentennial Man, Mr. Martin.
