State
ATTENTION JAMES VANDALEUR AND ANDROID. ATTENTION JAMES VANDALEUR AND ANDROID! YOU ARE SURROUNDED, THE ROAD IS BLOCKED. YOU ARE TO STOP YOUR CAR AT ONCE AND SUBMIT TO ARREST. STOP AT ONCE! ATTENTION ANDROID. YOU ARE IN CONTROL OF THE VEHICLE. YOU ARE TO STOP AT ONCE. IBIS IS A STATE DIRECTIVE SUPERSEDING ALL PRIVATE COMMANDS. ATTENTION JAMES VANDALEUR AND ANDROID. SUBMIT TO ARREST. THIS IS A STATE DIRECTIVE SUPERSEDING ALL PRIVATE COMMANDS.

Men
Nothing here. Where's here? Jenson's fields. You're drifting too far west. Close in the line there. Anybody covered the Grimson paddy? Yeah. Nothing. She couldn't have walked this far. Could have been carried. Think she's alive? Why should she be dead? Clear here. Nothing. Nothing here. Nothing. What about the Allen paddies? Covering them now. Think we missed her? Maybe. We'll beat back and check. This'll be an all night job. Allen paddies clear. God damn! We've got to find her! We'll find her. Here she is. Sector seven. Tune in. Dead three- four hours at least. Her mouth is dry. She wasn't drowned. Beaten to death. That blood ought to be clotted too. Funny. Not so funny. What kind of blood don't clot? Android. Looks like she was killed by one. Vandaleur owns an android. She couldn't be killed by an android. That's android blood under her nails. The police better check. The police'll prove I'm right. But androids can't kill. That's android blood, ain't it? Androids can't kill. They're made that way. Looks like one android was made wrong. Jesus!

Jed/Ted Stark
Probably hurt itself, Wanda. It's working in the power plant. They fling a lot of heavy stuff around. What else? Convenient for what? No point to that, Wanda. You don't have to see marks on a forehead to recognize an android. You don't have to see a trademark on a car to know it's a car. Why? Multiple aptitude? Then why in hell would Venice waste it stoking furnaces if it could earn more- Oh. Oh! You mean it's-? Jesus! What do we do? Call the police? How do we find out for sure?

Wanda
We've been studying the case, we think we know what's causing it. We're going to do a paper. Causing What? The android rampage. Obviously out of adjustment, isn't it? Body chemistry gone haywire. Maybe a kind of synthetic cancer, yes? No. Well, what is it? Something Specific. What? That would be telling. Oh, come on. Nothing doing. No, Mr. Venice, It's a unique idea and we've got to protect it. One thesis like this and we'll be set up for life. We can't take the chance of somebody else stealing it. No. Not a hint. Don't say a word, Jed. But I'll tell you this much, Mr. Venice, I'd hate to be the man who owns that android. I mean projection, Mr. Venice. Projection! That's the danger... and I won't say more. I've said too much as it is. Jed, why'd that android have a bruised forehead? That's all? It could be a convenient bruise. Hiding what's stamped on its forehead. I don't mean it's trying to pass as a human. I mean it's trying to pass as a lower grade android. Suppose it had MA on its forehead. No. We don't know if it's an MA for a fact. If it turns out to be an MA and the killing android, our paper comes first anyway. This is our big chance, Jed. If it's that android we can run a series of controlled tests and- Easy. Infrared film. That'll show what's under the
bruise. Borrow a camera. Buy some film. We'll sneak down to the power plant tomorrow afternoon and take some pictures. Then we'll know.

Blenheim
Yes? I hear you near me. What is it? We are all desperate, Quietly desperate. Are you begging or stealing? I'm prepared for either. Ah. So are we all. It is the history of our race. I have been begging at St. Paul's, my friend. What I desire cannot be stolen. What is it you desire that you are lucky enough to be to steal? Money for what? Come, my friend, let us exchange confidences. I will tell you why I beg, if you will tell why you steal. My name is Blenheim. I was not begging for sight at St. Paul's, Mr. Vole. was begging for a number. Ah, yes. Numbers rational, number irrational. Num imaginary. Positive integers. Negative integers. Fractions positive and negative. Eh? You have never heard of Blenheim's immortal treatise on Twenty Zeros, or The Differences in Absence of Quantity? I am a wizard of the Theory of Number, Mr. Vole, and have exhausted the charm of number for myself. After fifty years of wizardry, senility approaches and the appetite vanishes. I have been praying in St. Paul's for inspiration. Dear God, I prayed, if You exist, send me a number. Neither begging nor stealing, eh? But a bargain. So all life reduces to the banal. Perhaps the All-Mighty is not God but a merchant. Come home with me. I think I've found it, but I can't understand it. Here are the correlations, In fifty papers there are accounts of the criminal android. What is there, outside the depredations, that is also in fifty papers? It was a rhetorical question. Here is the answer. The weather. The weather. Each crime was committed on a day when the temperature was above ninety degrees Fahrenheit. We have no record of any crime committed on Lyra Alpha. There is no paper. That's the android, eh? 

Dallas
Your name's Vandaleur. isn't it? What happened on Paragon? I thought androids couldn't kill or destroy property. Prime Directives and Inhibitions set up for them when they're synthesized. Every company guarantees they can't. Oh, come off it, I've known for a week. I haven't hollered copper, have I? You want to prove it? You want I should call the cops? The papers are full of it. And Valentine was a little too close to Vandaleur. That wasn't smart, was it? Your android's got quite a record, hasn't it? Assault. Arson. Destruction. What happened on Paragon? Raped her? They're going to catch up with you. You better find out what's wrong with it. Why didn't you have it repaired before it got to murder? You could work yourself. People do. Yeah. That's true. You better sell it before the cops catch up with you. You can live off fifty grand. Invest it. What are you going to do about its violence kick? Nothing. It's none of my business. Only one thing... I ought to get something for keeping my mouth shut. The android works for me for free. Let somebody else pay you, but I get it for free. You happy or something? Be careful, you damned fool! You want to fall in?

Psychometric Consultant
Quite. Quite. What is your college at the University? There is a discount for students. That will be two pounds, please. Synesthesia, obviously. Synesthesia, When a sensation, Mr. Vanderbilt, is interpreted immediately in terms of a sensation from a different sense organ from the one stimulated, it is called synesthesia. For example: A sound stimulus gives rise to a simultaneous sensation of definite color. Or color gives rise to sensation of taste. Or a light stimulus gives rise to a sensation of sound. There can be confusion or short circuiting of any sensation of taste, smell, pain, pressure, temperature and so on. D'you understand? Your research has uncovered the fact that the android most probably reacts to temperature stimulus above the ninety degree level synthesthetically. Most probably there is an endocrine response. Probably a temperature linkage with the android adrenal surrogate. High temperature brings about a response of fear, anger, excitement, and violent physical activity... all within the province of the adrenal gland. There would be neither stimulus nor response. There would be no crimes. Quite. How do you mean? Very interesting. Projection is a throwing forward. It is the process of throwing out upon another the ideas or impulses that belong to oneself. The paranoid, for example projects upon others his conflicts and disturbances in order to externalize them. He accuses, directly or by implication, other men of having the very sickness with which he is struggling himself. It is the danger of believing what is implied. If you live with a psychotic who projects his sickness upon you, there is a danger of falling into his psychotic pattern and becoming virtually psychotic yourself. As, no doubt, is happening to you, Mr. Vandaleur. You are an ass, This is no exchange student's writing. It's the unique cursive of the famous Blenheim. Every scholar in England knows this blind writing. There is no Merton College at London University. That was a miserable guess. Merton is one of the Oxford Colleges. And you, Mr. Vandaleur, are so obviously infected by association with your deranged android... by projection, if you will... that I hesitate between calling the Metropolitan Police and the Hospital for the Criminally Insane.

James Vandaleur
Twelve, fourteen, sixteen. Sixteen hundred dollars, That's all. Sixteen hundred dollars. My house was worth ten thousand. The land was worth five. There was furniture, cars, my paintings, etchings, my plane, my - And nothing to show for everything but sixteen hundred dollars. Christ! You damned crazy machine. What got into you? Why did you do it? Damn you! Then why did you kill her? If it wasn't for kicks, why did you- First it was malicious mischief. Small things. Petty destruction. I should have known there was something wrong with you then. Androids can't destroy. They can't harm. They- Then it got to arson. Then serious destruction. Then assault... that engineer on Rigel. Each time worse. Each time we bad to get out faster. Now it's murder. Christ! What's the matter with you? What's happened? Each time we had to get out it was a step downhill. Look at me. In a second class cabin. Me. James Paleologue Vandaleur. There was a time when my father was the wealthiest- Now, sixteen hundred dollars in the world. That's all I've got. And you. Christ damn you! Instructions, My name is now Valentine. James Valentine. I stopped off on Paragon III for only one day to transfer to this ship for Megaster V. My occupation: Agent for one privately owned MA android which is for hire. Purpose of visit: settle on Megaster V. Fix the papers. Valentine! The name is Valentine. For God's sake, Dallas! How did you find out? I guess not. I'm not very smart. It kidnapped a child. Took her mto the rice fields and murdered her. I don't know. Don't I know it? Christ! We've been running for two years now. Seven planets in two years. I must have abandoned fifty thousand dollars worth of property in two years. How can I? Can I walk into a repair clinic and ask for an overhaul? What am I going to say? My android's just turned killer. Fix it. They'd call the police right off. They'd have that android dismantled inside one day. I'd probably be booked as accessory to murder. I couldn't take the chance, If they started fooling around with lobotomies and body chemistry and endocrine surgery, they might have destroyed its aptitudes. What would I have left to hire out? How would I live? Work for what? You know I'm good for nothing. How could I compete with specialist androids and robots? Who can, unless he's got a terrific talent for a particular job? I lived off my old man all my life. Damn him! He had to go bust just before he died. Left me the android and that's all. The only way I can get along is living off what it earns. At 3 per cent? Fifteen hundred a year? When the android returns 15 per cent on its value? Eight thousand a year. That's what it earns. No, Dallas. I've got to go along with it. I can't do anything... except watch it and pray. What are you going to do about it? What? I'll sell you, Damn you. When' land on Terra, I'll sell you. I'll settle for 3 per cent whatever you're worth. We've got to have money, He has money. Take it from him. For God's sake! You've attacked, destroyed, murdered. Don't gibber about prime directives. You haven't any left. Get his money. Kill him if you have to. I tell you, we're desperate! Sir... I'm desperate. Sir... I've got to have some money. Money. My name is... Vole. A number? In here, is a number. A hidden number. A secret number. The numbber of a crime. Shall we exchange, Mr. Blenheim? Shelter for a number? I don't know, Mr. Blenheim. What? But that's impossible, It was cool on Lyra Alpha. No. That's right. I- No. You're right. The furnace room. It was hot there. Hot! Of course. My God, yes! That's answer. Dallas Brady's electric furance ... The rice deltas on Paragon. So jeet your seat. Yes. But why? Why? My God, why? Yes, And that explains why it refused to attack you that night on the Strand. It wasn't hot enough to break prime directive. Only in the heat... The heat, all reet! Find a weapon. This is a fight for self-preservation. Bring me a weapon! My name, is Vanderbilt. James Vanderbilt. I'm an exchange student at London University. I've been researching on the killing android, and I think I've discovered something very interesting. I'd like your advice on it. What is your fee? Why? Merton College. There is a correlation, between the crimes of the android and the weather. You will note that each crime was committed when the temperature rose above ninety degrees Fahrenheit. Is there a psychometric answer for this? What? I think so. Yes. I see. Then if the android were to be kept in cold climates... I see. What is projection? Is there any danger of projection with regard to the owner of the android? And the danger of projection? Antares II, Alpha Aurigae, Acrux IV, Pollux IX, Rigel Centaurus, They're all cold. Cold as a witch's kiss. Mean temperature of 40° Fahrenheit. Never get hotter than 70. We're in business again. Watch that curve. Keep driving. Get the hell away from the wheel. We'll beat their God damned block. He can't submit, There's no one to submit to. He can't and I won't. Who says it's a state directive? Them up in that plane? They've got to show credentials. They've got to prove it's state authority before you submit. How d'you know they're not crooks trying to trick us? They'll miss us, Keep quiet. That's an order. They'll miss us. We'll beat them. We'll beat the fire. We'll-

Android
I must remind you, that I am worth fifty-seven thousand dollars on the current exchange. I must warn you that you are endangering valuable property. I am not a machine, The robot is a machine. The android is a chemical creation of synthetic tissue. I must remind you, that the second class cabins in these ships are not soundproofed. There is no pleasure pain syndrome incorporated in the android synthesis. There are no self-check relays incorporated in the android brain. Be fleet be fleet, cool and discreet, honey... Be fleet be fleet, cool and discreet, honey... All reet! All reet! So jeet your seat. Be fleet be fleet, cool and discreet, honey... I am worth fifty-seven thousand dollars on the current exchange. Sometimes, it is a good thing to be property. The order cannot be obeyed. Take it from him, by force. Do you understand? We're desperate. It is contrary to my prime directive, The order cannot be obeyed. It is forbidden to endanger life. A state directive supersedes all private commands, I must point out to you that- All reet! All reet! Be fleet be fleet!

Split Personality - Android
I must remind you that I cannot be punished, The pleasure-pain syndrome is not incorporated in the android synthesis. I don't know. I must remind you that the pleasure-pain syndrome is not incorporated in the android synthesis, All reet! All reet! Be fleet be fleet, cool and discreet, honey... I must remind you that I am worth fifty-seven thousand dollars on the current exchange, It is forbidden to endanger valuable property, All reet! All reet! Honey... I am valuable property, It is forbidden to endanger valuable property. You won't have me destroyed. It is contrary to my prime directive, I cannot endanger life or property. The order cannot be obeyed. I must point out to you, that I am required by my prime directive to obey state directives which supersede all private commands. I must submit to arrest.

Split Personality - Human
Why did you do it? Why did you kill her? Create and build, And now destroy. Oh God! What am I going to do? Christ! If I could only rid of you. If I didn't have to live off you. God! If only inherited some guts instead of you. Yes, No! No! It's Valentine - James Valentine. Won't tell us what? I... we're very much interested in what could go wrong with an android. Can't you give us a hint? You mean the police? If I can't sell you, I'll turn you in to the police. Christ damn you! What? Are you arrogant? Do you know you can trust me to protect you? Is that the secret? No more warmth for us, No more heat. We're safe when we're cold. We'll hole up in Scotland, make a little money, get across to Norway, build a bankroll and then slip out. We'll settle on Pollux. We're safe. We've licked it. We can live again. What the hell are you doing? Christ! We'll beat them yet. We'll be the block. We'll beat the heat. We'll- Christ! Damn you! Damn you!

