"Helen O'Loy she is, Phil." "Man, isn't she a beauty?" "Helen of Troy, eh?" "At least it beats this thing- K2W88. Helen... Mmmm... Helen of Alloy." "All right, that's the big trouble with the mechs now. But we'll get around it, put in some mechanical emotions, or something." "Go back to work, Lena, it's nineteen o'clock." "Not taking any chances with Lena," "We'll have to cut out that adrenal pack and restore her to normalcy. But we've got to get a better robot. A housemaid mech isn't complex enough." "Exactly. Even so, we'll need a special one built to order, with a full range of memory coils. And out of respect to old Lena, let's get a female case for its works." "Wait until we've slept and rested," "I'm as eager to try her as you are, but we can't do much studying with our minds half dead. Turn in, and we'll leave Helen until later." "Phil! Hey, snap out of it!" "No, it's old Mrs. van Styler. She visored to say her son has an infatuation for a servant girl, and she wants you to come out and give counter hormones. They're at the summer camp in Maine." "And you want to watch Helen." "I told her it'd cost fifty thousand!" "And she said okay, if you hurried." "Hi, Phil. See you up here later." "Join me?" "You noticed it, eh?" "Ubmmm." "Guess maybe I should have waited with Helen until you got back. But if that stereo cast hadn't changed... anyway, it did. And those mushy books of yours finished the job." "You know, Phil, I've got a place up in the country... fruit ranch. My dad left it to me. Think I'll look it over." "You try it. I had the idea, but she put up a wail that would wake Homer. She says it would be murder- and the hell of it is that I can't help feeling the same about it. Maybe she isn't human, but you wouldn't guess it when she puts on that martyred look and tells you to go ahead and kill her." "I don't know what we put in. Maybe the heterones backfired or something. Anyway, she's made this idea so much a part of her thoughts that we'd have to put in a whole new set of coils." "Go ahead. You're the surgeon of this family. I'm not used to fussing with emotions. Matter of fact, since she's been acting this way, I'm beginning to hate work on any robot. My business is going to blazes." "Hi, Phil -just closing up. Let's go eat." "Scat!" "Oh, all right, stay. You might as well hear it, too. I've sold the shop. The fellow you saw just bought it, and I'm going up to the old fruit ranch I told you about, Phil. I can't stand the mechs any more." "No, there's a growing demand for old fashioned fruit, raised out of doors. People are tired of this water culture stuff. Dad always made a living out of it. I'm leaving as I can get home and pack." "What's up, Phil?" "I was just getting my things together to-" "Phil, you don't know what you're doing!" "I won't have it, Phil. She's half mine and I forbid it!" "Go ahead, call me anything you want. I've changed my mind. I was packing to come home when you called." "I'm just waking up to what a fool I've been, Helen. Phil, I'll be home in a couple of hours, so if there's anything-" "Not much swing to that, Dave. Too many unstressed syllables in the middle. How about Helen O'Loy?" "Look here, Dave," "You know Lena doesn't think- not really. When those wires crossed, she could have corrected herself. But she didn't bother; she followed the mechanical impulse. A man might have reached for the vanilla, but when he saw it in his hand, he'd have stopped. Lena has sense enough, but she has no emotions, no consciousness of self." "How about Dillard's new utility models? They seem to combine everything in one." "Well?... Uh! What is it? Did Helen-" "Counter hormones! That'll take two weeks' full time. Anyway, I'm no society doctor, messing with glands to keep fools happy. My job's taking care of serious trouble." "Huh?" "Glad to see you doing so well, Helen." "You said something about supper?" "What's the matter with him... and you?" "Of course, it's none of my business, Dave, but that stuff won't steady your nerves any. What's gotten into you and Helen? Been seeing ghosts?" "Noticed it? The two of you jammed it down my throat." "Thanks. That makes it all clear." "Look here, Dave," "Helen isn't human, after all. Why not cut off her power and change a few memory coils? Then we can convince her that she never was in love and couldn't get that way." "We never put in substitutes for some of the secretions present in man during the love period." "Well, why not?" "Yeah. I got him to eat, and he's gone to work." "Well, what is it?" "He'll go crazy if you keep acting this way around him." "Even if I cut out your power and changed your coils, he'd probably still be haunted by you." "And give him strapping sons to boot, I suppose. A man wants flesh and blood, not rubber and metal." "You'll starve to death at that," "Things can't go on the way they are Dave. I've made up my mind. I'm yanking Helen's coils tonight. It won't be worse than what she's going through now." "Of course I do. It'll all be over by the time you can get here. As you heard, she's agreeing." "Of all the-"