"It's a lie," "You're all liars. If you so-and-so's would leave me whole long enough, I might get something done around the place." "Dave, dear?" "Dave?" "Oh," "I thought it was Dave. He hardly comes home to eat now, but I've had supper waiting hours." "You're Phil, aren't you? Dave told me about you when... at first. I'm so glad to see you home, Phil." "Oh, yes. I guess Dave ate downtown again, so we might as well go in. It'll be nice having someone to talk to around the house, Phil. You don't mind if I call you Phil, do you? You know, you're sort of a godfather to me." "He's sick of me." "You'd better see him while I clean up. And there's nothing wrong with me. And it's not my fault, anyway." "Oh, Dave, darling, I've missed you so, and I'm so thrilled that you're back." "I know, Dave, but I still love you." "Dave's gone?" "I'm glad he ate." "Phil?" "Do you think I'm bad for him? I mean, do you think he'd be happier if I weren't here?" "I know. But I can't help it. And I'd make him a good wife, really I would, Phil." "Don't, please! I can't think of myself that way; to me, I'm a woman. And you know how perfectly I'm made to imitate a real woman... in all ways. I couldn't give him sons, but in every other way... I'd try so hard, I knew I'd make him a good wife." "Come on home, Dave. I've got roast duck with spice stuffing, and you know you love that." "I'll pack, Dave, while you eat. I've got apple cobbler for dessert." "Maybe that's best, Phil. I don't blame you." "Dave, do you... are you-" As you know, Dave has bad heart trouble for several years now. We expected him to live on just the same, but it seems that wasn't to be. He died in my arms just before sunrise. He sent you his greetings and farewell. I've one last favor to ask of you, Phil. There is only one thing for me to do when this is finished. Acid will burn out metal as well as flesh, and I'll be dead with Dave. Please see that we are buried together, and that the morticians do not find my secret. Dave wanted it that way, too. Poor, dear Phil. I know you loved Dave as a brother, and how you felt about me. Please don't grieve too much for us, for we have had a happy life together, and both feel that we should cross this last bridge side by side. With love and thanks from, Helen. 