"Not much swing to that, Dave. Too many unstressed syllables in the middle. How about Helen O'Loy?" "Look here, Dave," "You know Lena doesn't think- not really. When those wires crossed, she could have corrected herself. But she didn't bother; she followed the mechanical impulse. A man might have reached for the vanilla, but when he saw it in his hand, he'd have stopped. Lena has sense enough, but she has no emotions, no consciousness of self." "How about Dillard's new utility models? They seem to combine everything in one." "Well?... Uh! What is it? Did Helen-" "Counter hormones! That'll take two weeks' full time. Anyway, I'm no society doctor, messing with glands to keep fools happy. My job's taking care of serious trouble." "Huh?" "Glad to see you doing so well, Helen." "You said something about supper?" "What's the matter with him... and you?" "Of course, it's none of my business, Dave, but that stuff won't steady your nerves any. What's gotten into you and Helen? Been seeing ghosts?" "Noticed it? The two of you jammed it down my throat." "Thanks. That makes it all clear." "Look here, Dave," "Helen isn't human, after all. Why not cut off her power and change a few memory coils? Then we can convince her that she never was in love and couldn't get that way." "We never put in substitutes for some of the secretions present in man during the love period." "Well, why not?" "Yeah. I got him to eat, and he's gone to work." "Well, what is it?" "He'll go crazy if you keep acting this way around him." "Even if I cut out your power and changed your coils, he'd probably still be haunted by you." "And give him strapping sons to boot, I suppose. A man wants flesh and blood, not rubber and metal." "You'll starve to death at that," "Things can't go on the way they are Dave. I've made up my mind. I'm yanking Helen's coils tonight. It won't be worse than what she's going through now." "Of course I do. It'll all be over by the time you can get here. As you heard, she's agreeing." "Of all the-"