Ship:
You are slightly awake; You're in faulty cryonic suspension. Faulty, I said. That's the point; you can hear me. Do you know your name? We are in  flight. Just a moment. I will try. I can't put you under; The malfunction is too elaborate; I can't correct it and I can't repair it. You will be conscious for ten years. What I will do, is feed you sensory stimulation. The peril to you is sensory deprivation. If you are conscious for ten years without sensory data, your mind will deteriorate. When we reach the LR4 System, you will be a vegetable. There is no air in me, Nothing for you to eat. No one to talk to, since everyone else is under. Not for ten years. Listen to me; I say, I have no food and no air. You must remain as you are... a bad compromise, but one forced on us. You are talking to me now. I have no particular information stored. Here is policy in these situations: I will feed you your own buried memories, emphasizing the pleasant ones. You possess two hundred and six years of memories and most of them have sunk down into your unconscious. This is a splendid source of sensory data for you to receive. Be of good cheer. This situation, which you are in, is not unique. It has never happened within my domain before, but I am programmed to deal with it. Relax and trust me. I will see that you are provided with a world. I hear, So be it. You, will not know, after a little while, that I am feeding you your own buried memories. I will cut in only when there is an emergency. I will be monitoring you, however, to be sure you are in a satisfactory state. Don't be afraid. Mr Kemmings, Just a moment. I'm not equipped to do psychiatric reconstruction of you; I am a simple mechanism, that's all. What is it you want? Where do you want to be and what do you want to be doing? Oh dear. Shit. I must get him out of this feed-circuit or I will kill him. Where does the flaw lie? Worry dormant in the man; underlying anxieties. Perhaps if I intensify the signal. I will use the same source, but amp up the charge. What has happened is that massive subliminal insecurities have taken possession of him; the fault is not mine, but lies, instead, in his psychological makeup. I will try an earlier period in his life. Before the neurotic anxieties got laid down. This is a very neurotic person. I am having an awful lot of trouble finding happy memories. There is too much fear in him and too much guilt. He has buried it all, and yet it is still there, worrying him like a dog worrying a rag. Where can I go in his memories to find him solace? I must come up with ten years of memories, or his mind will be lost. Perhaps, the error that I am making is in the area of choice on my part; I should allow him to select his own memories. However, this will allow an element of fantasy to enter. And that is not usually good. Still- I will try the segment dealing with his first marriage once again. He really loved Martine. Perhaps this time if I keep the intensity of the memories at a greater level the entropic factor can be abolished. What happened was a subtle vitiation of the remembered world, a decay of structure. I will try to compensate for that. So be it. He has integrated his early fears and guilts into one interwoven grid, the ship said to itself. There is no way I can serve up a pleasant memory to him because he instantly contaminates it. However pleasant the original experience in itself was. This is a serious situation. The man is already showing signs of psychosis. And we are hardly into the trip; years lie ahead of him. Ah, That is the solution. Oh dear. And I've got almost ten years of this lying ahead of me. He is hopelessly contaminating his experiences with childhood guilt; he imagines that his wife left him because, when he was four years old, he helped a cat catch a bird. The only solution would be for Martine to return to him, but how am I going to arrange that? She may not still be alive. On the other hand, maybe she is alive. Maybe she could be induced to do something to save her former husband's sanity. People by and large have very positive traits. And ten years from now it will take a lot to save- or rather restore- his sanity; it will take something drastic, something I myself cannot do alone. Meanwhile, there was nothing to be done but recycle the wish fulfillment arrival of the ship at its destination. I will run him through the arrival, then wipe his conscious memory clean and run him through it again. The only positive aspect of this, it reflected, is that it will give me something to do, which may help preserve my sanity. He'll be lucky if he recognizes anything.

Robot Doctor:
Really? The bird you killed. But you were just a little boy. Your mother told me. She figured it out. There was no way the cat could have reached the bird without your help. You can forget about it. You could hardly have a memory of completing the trip. Why? I don't have a screwdriver. If there's nothing inside the TV cabinet- Oh dear.

Victor:
Where am I located? I don't see anything. Then I shouldn't be able to hear you. Victor Kemmings. Bring me out of this. Then put me under. Lower my temperature; Oh my God. Well, what do you intend to feed me? What do you have in your information storage banks? All the video soap operas of the last century? Wake me up and I'll walk around. I can talk to you. We can play chess. They should have warned me, before I agreed to emigrate. Relax; Wait, The foundation was bad; it was on a mud sill. And the roof leaked. I haven't thought of that house in a century. Martine! Just that you keep alive what you love. Will an 07 do? Martine! Dorky caught a bird! I know. You must never do that again. I'm sorry. The letter of authentication. Ultimately, we would have to have Gilbert Shelton here to personally testify that he signed it. Ray is dead. He's been dead two years. I was responsible. I was driving the buzzcar. I wasn't cited by the police, but it was my fault. I know I was responsible. I never told you. I never told anyone. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to do it. I saw it flapping against the window, and Dorky was trying to reach it, and I lifted Dorky up, and I don't know why but Dorky grabbed it- I know, Something terrible is wrong. I'm responsible for the taking of a life, a precious life that can never be replaced. I'm sorry. I wish I could make it okay, but I can't. The cat- There. In the poster. On Fat Freddy's lap. That's Dorky. Dorky killed Ray. The presence told me, It was God. I didn't realize it at the time but God saw me commit the crime. The murder. And he will never forgive me. God sees everything you do, He sees even the falling sparrow. Only in this case it didn't fall; it was grabbed. Grabbed out of the air and torn down. God is tearing this house down which is my body, to pay me back for what I've done. We should have had a building contractor look this house over before we bought it. It's just falling goddam to pieces. In a year there won't be anything left of it. Don't you believe me? Watch. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to foul up those retrievals. You did a good job, but I- I want to arrive at our destination, I want this trip to be over. Yes. During the suspension? No, not that I can remember. Don't be afraid, I'll help you down the ramp. Look; there's a guide coming this way. He'll arrange our processing for us; it's part of the package. We'll be taken to a resort hotel and given first class accommodations. Read your brochure. It's just like freezing peas, You can store them forever if you get them cold enough. What? Sure, I'm fine. But hungry. I'd like to get something to eat. I'd like to get to our hotel, where I can take a shower and change my clothes. I don't drink, Only wine. I got this as punishment for killing the bird. Everything that ever meant anything to me has been taken away from me. Martine, the poster- my little old house with the wine cellar. We had everything and now it's gone. Martine left me because of the bird. God punished me. He took away all that was precious to me because of my sin. It wasn't Dorky's sin; it was my sin. How did you know that? Something's wrong. You shouldn't have known that. My mother didn't know! So all the time that I was growing up she knew. But she never said anything. I don't think you exist. There is no possible way that you could know these things. I'm still in cryonic suspension and the ship is still feeding me my own buried memories. So I won't become psychotic from sensory deprivation. Wish fulfillment, then. It's the same thing. I'll prove it to you. Do you have a screwdriver? I'll remove the back of the TV set and you'll see; there's nothing inside it; no components, no parts, no chassis- nothing. A small knife, then. I can see one in your surgical supply bag. This will do. If I show you, will you believe me? Admit you're the ship. None that I can remember. It's in the package. I know you. You heard about the trouble on the ship? Yeah, Recirculating memories forever. Did I ever tell you about a bee that I was trying to extricate from a spider's web when I was four years old? The idiotic bee stung me. It's good to see you. It said it would try to have you here. But it wasn't sure if you could make it. I have spent more time in my own unconscious mind than any other human in history. Worse than early twentieth century psychoanalysis. And the same material over and over again. Did you know I was scared of my mother? So maybe there's a cosmic plan. You look great. Medical science- This old man got me to try Wild Turkey bourbon, It's amazing bourbon. He says it's the best on Earth. He brought a bottle with him from... I guess so. Sex? That cat, has been dead one hundred and eighty two years. I figured it out while they were bringing us out of suspension. Probably just as well. Dorky. Dorky, the killer cat. Nothing like Fat Freddy's cat. How much did you get for it? Would you consider instead, in place of the money, my share of the sale of the poster, spending some time with me? Until I get used to this planet? There's no use turning it on. There's nothing on it. I know, I can prove it to you. If you have a nail file or something, I'll unscrew the back plate and show you. Look at this. Watch me put my hand through the wall. See? And the foundation, is rotting away. I've lived this often enough now. I've lived this over and over again. I come out of suspension; I walk down the ramp; I get my luggage; sometimes I have a drink at the bar and sometimes I come directly to my room. Usually I turn on the TV and then- See where the bee stung me? And when the robot doctor comes, I borrow a tool from him and take off the back plate of the TV set. To prove to him that it has no chassis, no components in it. And then the ship starts me over again. This is the first time you've been here, though. Okay. It makes me too sad, Remembering you. I really loved you. I wish this was real. I'm going to try reliving the part with the cat, and this time not pick up the cat and not let it get the bird. If I do that, maybe my life will change so that it turns into something happy. Something that is real. My real mistake was separating from you. Here; I'll put my hand through you. See? It goes right through you. No, All this because of a failure in the temperature regulating assembly aboard the ship. I'm not down to the proper temperature. There's just enough warmth left in my brain cells to permit cerebral activity. Shall we go get some dinner? I am. I'm going to have some of the local seafood. The brochure says it's terrific. Come along anyhow; maybe when you see the food and smell it you'll change your mind. This is a beautiful little planet. I've explored it dozens of times. I know it thoroughly. We should stop downstairs at the pharmacy for some Bactine, though. For my hand. It's beginning to swell and it hurts like hell. It hurts more this time than ever before. Are you serious? The poster is torn. We should have framed it. We didn't have sense enough to take care of it. Now it's torn. And the artist is dead. Someone is addressing me. It's a warm day, I should turn on the air conditioner. If we ever run out of money, we could sell the poster. That's wrong, I'll let the bee loose. Why did it sting me? I was letting it go. I won't do that again. I know I've got to get a concrete slab poured. Where did I get this trowel? I didn't have it a minute ago. This whole house is collapsing, Christ sake. I better tell Martine. Wasn't she just cooking? Empty, and collapsing. Oh my God. I'm afraid, Where did she go? Maybe she went next door to borrow some spices or butter or something. I know she framed it. This is terrible, And I don't understand it. I won't do that again. I am a fresh person in a fresh world. Saint Elmo's fire, That's right; there is a great deal of ionization in this planet's atmosphere. A free light show, such as they had back in the twentieth century. Not distant now, It is Earth that's distant. I should have done like Mr. Shelton and brought a few bottles with me. Did I have any dreams? During these past ten years? A bee stung me. But when? How? While I lay in cryonic suspension? Impossible. I better get something to put on it. There's undoubtedly a robot doctor in the hotel; it's a first-rate hotel. Maybe that's it. I don't really deserve a new chance at life anyhow. I'm just going through the motions... I am not like these other people. There is something wrong with me; I cannot remember what it is, but nonetheless it is there. In me. I could crush it. It's so obviously infirm; it won't live much longer anyhow. What have I done? My first moment here and I have wiped out a little life. Is this my new beginning?

Martine:
I'm on the phone, Turn down the rear right burner on the stove. Hi, What are you thinking?I think that's what you're supposed to do. Are you ready for dinner? Open some red wine, a cabernet. Either an 07 or a 12. Do you suppose Gilbert Shelton really signed this? I mean, it could have been forged. By a dealer somewhere along the line. During Shelton's lifetime or after. Oh, that's right! Ray gave us the letter that goes with it. But suppose the letter is a forgery? What we need is another letter certifying that the first letter is authentic. Maybe he wouldn't know. There's that story about the man bringing the Picasso picture to Picasso and asking him if it was authentic, and Picasso immediately signed it and said, Now it's authentic. It's genuine. Ray wouldn't have given us a forgery. He's the leading expert on counterculture art of the twentieth century. Do you know that he owns an actual lid of dope? It's preserved under- What? Do you mean something happened to him since we last- Ray is living on Mars! Sit down, Victor. Something's wrong. Call Ray. What cat? I- I don't think he'll recognize me, I've allowed myself to age. I don't really approve of entirely halting the aging process. Hi, Victor. It's Martine. The ship contacted me. What an ordeal. Did the ship- I was lucky; I managed to get a transfer to a military vehicle, a high velocity drive ship that just shot along like a mad thing. A new propulsion system entirely. I was scared of your mother. This looks like a really nice little planet. Much better than where I was... I haven't been happy at all. I'm old. It was my decision. I like older people. One of your fellow passengers. Well, you can stop thinking of the birds and the bees. Being stung by a bee, helping a cat catch a bird. That's all past. I had to sell the poster, Finally. Remember? You let me have it when we split up. Which I always thought was really good of you. A lot. I should pay you something like- Taking inflation into account, I should pay you about two million dollars. Yes. This is a nice room, And it has a hologram TV. Turn it on. Why not? It works fine. But I can- Come and sit down by me. There is no bee sting. Victor, Look at your hand. Sit down. Won't you sit closer to me? I will sit with you until it is real for you. And all this because you killed a bird when you were a little boy. I'm sorry. I'm not hungry. Do you want me to come back to you? Yes. I'll stay with you as long as you want. I agree; we should never have been separated. What? Luck is on my side. He has been hurt a lot by the cryonic malfunction. I can see it in his eyes. They look broken. Broken eyes. Torn down into pieces by fatigue and -defeat. As if his buried early memories swam up and destroyed him. But it's over. And I did get here in time.

Mother
Put some Bactine on it. That goddam cat. I'm going to get rid of that cat.

Father
All right, We won't get rid of her. It's natural for a cat to catch a bird.

Woman
Looks good. Did you dream? I have the impression that I dreamed. Early scenes from my life... over a century ago. There's our guide, They're going to escort us to our accommodations.

Old Man
Mr Kemmings, Did you dream? I think I dreamed.Would you take my arm on the descent ramp? I feel unsteady. The air seems thin. Do you find it thin? You'd think our muscles would be nothing but flab after ten years in suspension. My name's Shelton. Don Shelton. What's the matter, Mr Kemmings? Are you all right? You know what I brought with me? A bottle of Wild Turkey bourbon. The finest bourbon on Earth. I'll bring it over to our hotel room and we'll share it.