Where am I located? I don't see anything. Then I shouldn't be able to hear you. Victor Kemmings. Bring me out of this. Then put me under. Lower my temperature; Oh my God. Well, what do you intend to feed me? What do you have in your information storage banks? All the video soap operas of the last century? Wake me up and I'll walk around. I can talk to you. We can play chess. They should have warned me, before I agreed to emigrate. Relax; Wait, The foundation was bad; it was on a mud sill. And the roof leaked. I haven't thought of that house in a century. Martine! Just that you keep alive what you love. Will an 07 do? Martine! Dorky caught a bird! I know. You must never do that again. I'm sorry. The letter of authentication. Ultimately, we would have to have Gilbert Shelton here to personally testify that he signed it. Ray is dead. He's been dead two years. I was responsible. I was driving the buzzcar. I wasn't cited by the police, but it was my fault. I know I was responsible. I never told you. I never told anyone. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to do it. I saw it flapping against the window, and Dorky was trying to reach it, and I lifted Dorky up, and I don't know why but Dorky grabbed it- I know, Something terrible is wrong. I'm responsible for the taking of a life, a precious life that can never be replaced. I'm sorry. I wish I could make it okay, but I can't. The cat- There. In the poster. On Fat Freddy's lap. That's Dorky. Dorky killed Ray. The presence told me, It was God. I didn't realize it at the time but God saw me commit the crime. The murder. And he will never forgive me. God sees everything you do, He sees even the falling sparrow. Only in this case it didn't fall; it was grabbed. Grabbed out of the air and torn down. God is tearing this house down which is my body, to pay me back for what I've done. We should have had a building contractor look this house over before we bought it. It's just falling goddam to pieces. In a year there won't be anything left of it. Don't you believe me? Watch. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to foul up those retrievals. You did a good job, but I- I want to arrive at our destination, I want this trip to be over. Yes. During the suspension? No, not that I can remember. Don't be afraid, I'll help you down the ramp. Look; there's a guide coming this way. He'll arrange our processing for us; it's part of the package. We'll be taken to a resort hotel and given first class accommodations. Read your brochure. It's just like freezing peas, You can store them forever if you get them cold enough. What? Sure, I'm fine. But hungry. I'd like to get something to eat. I'd like to get to our hotel, where I can take a shower and change my clothes. I don't drink, Only wine. I got this as punishment for killing the bird. Everything that ever meant anything to me has been taken away from me. Martine, the poster- my little old house with the wine cellar. We had everything and now it's gone. Martine left me because of the bird. God punished me. He took away all that was precious to me because of my sin. It wasn't Dorky's sin; it was my sin. How did you know that? Something's wrong. You shouldn't have known that. My mother didn't know! So all the time that I was growing up she knew. But she never said anything. I don't think you exist. There is no possible way that you could know these things. I'm still in cryonic suspension and the ship is still feeding me my own buried memories. So I won't become psychotic from sensory deprivation. Wish fulfillment, then. It's the same thing. I'll prove it to you. Do you have a screwdriver? I'll remove the back of the TV set and you'll see; there's nothing inside it; no components, no parts, no chassis- nothing. A small knife, then. I can see one in your surgical supply bag. This will do. If I show you, will you believe me? Admit you're the ship. None that I can remember. It's in the package. I know you. You heard about the trouble on the ship? Yeah, Recirculating memories forever. Did I ever tell you about a bee that I was trying to extricate from a spider's web when I was four years old? The idiotic bee stung me. It's good to see you. It said it would try to have you here. But it wasn't sure if you could make it. I have spent more time in my own unconscious mind than any other human in history. Worse than early twentieth century psychoanalysis. And the same material over and over again. Did you know I was scared of my mother? So maybe there's a cosmic plan. You look great. Medical science- This old man got me to try Wild Turkey bourbon, It's amazing bourbon. He says it's the best on Earth. He brought a bottle with him from... I guess so. Sex? That cat, has been dead one hundred and eighty two years. I figured it out while they were bringing us out of suspension. Probably just as well. Dorky. Dorky, the killer cat. Nothing like Fat Freddy's cat. How much did you get for it? Would you consider instead, in place of the money, my share of the sale of the poster, spending some time with me? Until I get used to this planet? There's no use turning it on. There's nothing on it. I know, I can prove it to you. If you have a nail file or something, I'll unscrew the back plate and show you. Look at this. Watch me put my hand through the wall. See? And the foundation, is rotting away. I've lived this often enough now. I've lived this over and over again. I come out of suspension; I walk down the ramp; I get my luggage; sometimes I have a drink at the bar and sometimes I come directly to my room. Usually I turn on the TV and then- See where the bee stung me? And when the robot doctor comes, I borrow a tool from him and take off the back plate of the TV set. To prove to him that it has no chassis, no components in it. And then the ship starts me over again. This is the first time you've been here, though. Okay. It makes me too sad, Remembering you. I really loved you. I wish this was real. I'm going to try reliving the part with the cat, and this time not pick up the cat and not let it get the bird. If I do that, maybe my life will change so that it turns into something happy. Something that is real. My real mistake was separating from you. Here; I'll put my hand through you. See? It goes right through you. No, All this because of a failure in the temperature regulating assembly aboard the ship. I'm not down to the proper temperature. There's just enough warmth left in my brain cells to permit cerebral activity. Shall we go get some dinner? I am. I'm going to have some of the local seafood. The brochure says it's terrific. Come along anyhow; maybe when you see the food and smell it you'll change your mind. This is a beautiful little planet. I've explored it dozens of times. I know it thoroughly. We should stop downstairs at the pharmacy for some Bactine, though. For my hand. It's beginning to swell and it hurts like hell. It hurts more this time than ever before. Are you serious? The poster is torn. We should have framed it. We didn't have sense enough to take care of it. Now it's torn. And the artist is dead. Someone is addressing me. It's a warm day, I should turn on the air conditioner. If we ever run out of money, we could sell the poster. That's wrong, I'll let the bee loose. Why did it sting me? I was letting it go. I won't do that again. I know I've got to get a concrete slab poured. Where did I get this trowel? I didn't have it a minute ago. This whole house is collapsing, Christ sake. I better tell Martine. Wasn't she just cooking? Empty, and collapsing. Oh my God. I'm afraid, Where did she go? Maybe she went next door to borrow some spices or butter or something. I know she framed it. This is terrible, And I don't understand it. I won't do that again. I am a fresh person in a fresh world. Saint Elmo's fire, That's right; there is a great deal of ionization in this planet's atmosphere. A free light show, such as they had back in the twentieth century. Not distant now, It is Earth that's distant. I should have done like Mr. Shelton and brought a few bottles with me. Did I have any dreams? During these past ten years? A bee stung me. But when? How? While I lay in cryonic suspension? Impossible. I better get something to put on it. There's undoubtedly a robot doctor in the hotel; it's a first-rate hotel. Maybe that's it. I don't really deserve a new chance at life anyhow. I'm just going through the motions... I am not like these other people. There is something wrong with me; I cannot remember what it is, but nonetheless it is there. In me. I could crush it. It's so obviously infirm; it won't live much longer anyhow. What have I done? My first moment here and I have wiped out a little life. Is this my new beginning? I'm on the phone, Turn down the rear right burner on the stove. Hi, What are you thinking?I think that's what you're supposed to do. Are you ready for dinner? Open some red wine, a cabernet. Either an 07 or a 12. Do you suppose Gilbert Shelton really signed this? I mean, it could have been forged. By a dealer somewhere along the line. During Shelton's lifetime or after. Oh, that's right! Ray gave us the letter that goes with it. But suppose the letter is a forgery? What we need is another letter certifying that the first letter is authentic. Maybe he wouldn't know. There's that story about the man bringing the Picasso picture to Picasso and asking him if it was authentic, and Picasso immediately signed it and said, Now it's authentic. It's genuine. Ray wouldn't have given us a forgery. He's the leading expert on counterculture art of the twentieth century. Do you know that he owns an actual lid of dope? It's preserved under- What? Do you mean something happened to him since we last- Ray is living on Mars! Sit down, Victor. Something's wrong. Call Ray. What cat? I- I don't think he'll recognize me, I've allowed myself to age. I don't really approve of entirely halting the aging process. Hi, Victor. It's Martine. The ship contacted me. What an ordeal. Did the ship- I was lucky; I managed to get a transfer to a military vehicle, a high velocity drive ship that just shot along like a mad thing. A new propulsion system entirely. I was scared of your mother. This looks like a really nice little planet. Much better than where I was... I haven't been happy at all. I'm old. It was my decision. I like older people. One of your fellow passengers. Well, you can stop thinking of the birds and the bees. Being stung by a bee, helping a cat catch a bird. That's all past. I had to sell the poster, Finally. Remember? You let me have it when we split up. Which I always thought was really good of you. A lot. I should pay you something like- Taking inflation into account, I should pay you about two million dollars. Yes. This is a nice room, And it has a hologram TV. Turn it on. Why not? It works fine. But I can- Come and sit down by me. There is no bee sting. Victor, Look at your hand. Sit down. Won't you sit closer to me? I will sit with you until it is real for you. And all this because you killed a bird when you were a little boy. I'm sorry. I'm not hungry. Do you want me to come back to you? Yes. I'll stay with you as long as you want. I agree; we should never have been separated. What? Luck is on my side. He has been hurt a lot by the cryonic malfunction. I can see it in his eyes. They look broken. Broken eyes. Torn down into pieces by fatigue and -defeat. As if his buried early memories swam up and destroyed him. But it's over. And I did get here in time. Put some Bactine on it. That goddam cat. I'm going to get rid of that cat. All right, We won't get rid of her. It's natural for a cat to catch a bird. Looks good. Did you dream? I have the impression that I dreamed. Early scenes from my life... over a century ago. There's our guide, They're going to escort us to our accommodations. Mr Kemmings, Did you dream? I think I dreamed. Would you take my arm on the descent ramp? I feel unsteady. The air seems thin. Do you find it thin? You'd think our muscles would be nothing but flab after ten years in suspension. My name's Shelton. Don Shelton. What's the matter, Mr Kemmings? Are you all right? You know what I brought with me? A bottle of Wild Turkey bourbon. The finest bourbon on Earth. I'll bring it over to our hotel room and we'll share it.