"She all right?" "She is all right?" "What's wrong, then?" "She thinks so?" "She can-" "Her eyesight's normal now?" "No- what?" "Deirdre!" (Brain said) "This is Deirdre! She hasn't changed at all!" (Brain said) "No, not Deirdre- not human. Nothing but metal coils. Not Deirdre at all- " "It's a miracle," "It's you. But I don't see how- -how, without face or body-" "But the voice, too, It's your voice, Deirdre." "Do you think will they accept you, Deirdre? After all- Maltzer's worried," "He can't see you as I do, anyhow."  "I wonder, though- would it help him any if you postponed your debut awhile? You've been with him too closely, I think. You don't quite realize how near a breakdown he is. I was shocked when I saw him just now." "What are you going to do?" "How? Where? There hasn't been any publicity at all yet, has there? I didn't know- You mean it's to be a complete surprise?" "Audience?" "Does Maltzer know?" "But he'll have to give his permission too, won't he? I mean- All right. I suppose I agree with you. How soon are you going to do it?" "It isn't time yet. She won't be on for half an hour." "You think she can't?" "She hasn't lost everything," "She can dance and sing as well as ever, maybe better. She still has grace and charm and- She isn't human," "But she isn't pure robot either. She's something somewhere between the two, and I think it's a mistake to try to guess just where, or what the outcome will be." "Wait," "Wait and see. I think you're wrong." "Do you really think you'd have stopped her if you could?" "Shut up," "You won't do her any good if you break down yourself. Look- the vaude's starting." "Well?" "Listen," "Tell me one thing. What makes you so certain you're right? Can you deny that most of it's speculation- hearsay evidence? Remember, I talked to Deirdre, and she was just as sure as you are in the opposite direction. Have you any real reason for what you think?" "Try me." "How?" "I think you're wrong," "I think you're imagining things. I don't think you can stop her." (Thought of saying) "No I won't." "Is everything all right?" "What are you going to do?" "Do you want me to go to work on bookings, then?" "Did you explain everything to her that you did to me?" "Come in, come in,"  "Oh yes -..yes ,she's all right." "No, We'd better have a talk first. Come over and sit down. Drink?" "Oh yes, she's perfect. She's so confident it scares me." "Nothing, I guess. Or ... well, I don't know. I'm not sure any more. I've worked toward this meeting for nearly a year, but now- well, I'm not sure it's time yet. I'm just not sure." "I've been too close to her, I have no perspective any more. All I can see is my own work. And I'm just not sure that's ready yet for you or anyone to see." "I never saw a woman so confident." "Of course a failure now would mean- well, absolute collapse, -so many complications," "There was shock, of course. Terrible shock. And a great fear of fire. We had to conquer that before we could take the first steps. But we did it. When you go in you'll probably find her sitting before the fire." "No, she can't feel the warmth now, of course. But she likes to watch the flames. She's mastered any abnormal fear of them quite beautifully." "Perfect," "Perfect vision was fairly simple to provide. After all, that sort of thing has already been worked out, in other connections. I might even say her vision's a little better than perfect, from our own standpoint." "I'm not worried about the mechanics of the thing. Luckily they got to her before the brain was touched at all. Shock was the only danger to her sensory centers, and we took care of all that first of all, as soon as communication could be established. Even so, it needed great courage on her part. Great courage." "Harris, have I made a mistake? Should we have let her die?" "It's not that she's- ugly- now, Metal isn't ugly. And Deirdre... well, you'll see. I tell you, I can't see myself. I know the whole mechanism so well -it's just mechanics to me. Maybe she's- grotesque. I don't know. Often I've wished I hadn't been on the spot, with all my ideas, just when the fire broke out. Or that it could have been anyone but Deirdre. She was so beautiful- Still , if it had been someone else I think the whole thing might have failed completely. It takes more than just an uninjured brain. It takes strength and courage beyond common, and- well, something more. Something- unquenchable. Deirdre has it. She's still Deirdre. In a way she's still beautiful. But I'm not sure anybody but myself could see that. And you know what she plans?" "She's going back on the air-screen." "She is still beautiful," "She's got courage, and a serenity that amazes me. And she isn't in the least worried or resentful about what's happened. Or afraid what the verdict of the public will be. But I am, Harris. I'm terrified." "She's in there," "You get her," "Get it, get it!" "She's competing with that," "Look at em! I'm not even fit to handle a hammer and saw." "Of course she can't compete," "She hasn't any sex. She isn't female any more. She doesn't know that yet, but she'll learn." "She's an abstraction now," "I don't know what it'll do to her, but there'll be change. Remember Abelard? She's lost everything that made her essentially what the public wanted, and she's going to find it out the hard way. After that- Yes, but where did the grace and charm come from? Not out of the habit patterns in her brain. No, out of human contacts, out of all the things that stimulate sensitive minds to creativeness. And she's lost three of her five senses. Everything she can't see and hear is gone. One of the strongest stimuli to a woman of her type was the knowledge of sex competition. You know how she sparkled when a man came into the room? All that's gone, and it was an essential. You know how liquor stimulated her? She's lost that. She couldn't taste food or drink even if she needed it. Perfume, flowers, all the odors we respond to mean nothing to her now. She can't feel anything with tactual delicacy any more. She used to surround herself with luxuries- she drew her stimuli from them- and that's all gone too. She's withdrawn from all physical contacts." "Sight," "is the most highly civilized of the senses. It was the last to come. The other senses tie us in closely with the very roots of life; I think we perceive with them more keenly than we know. The things we realize through taste and smell and feeling stimulate directly, without a detour through the centers of conscious thought. You know how often a taste or odor will recall a memory to you so subtly you don't know exactly what caused it? We need those primitive senses to tie us in with nature and the race. Through those ties Deirdre drew her vitality without realizing it. Sight is a cold, intellectual thing compared with the other senses. But it's all she has to draw on now. She isn't a human being any more, and I think what humanity is left in her will drain out little by little and never be replaced. Abelard, in a way, was a prototype. But Deirdre's loss is complete." "I don't have to guess," "I know. I wish I'd let her die. I've done something to her a thousand times worse than the fire ever could. I should have let her die in it." "I shouldn't have let her," "I shouldn't have let her do it." "No, I suppose not. I keep thinking if I worked and waited a little longer maybe I could make it easier for her, but- no, I suppose not. She's got to face them sooner or later, being herself."  "If she only weren't so -..so frail. She doesn't realize how delicately poised her very sanity is. We gave her what we could- the artists and the designers and I, all gave our very best- but she's so pitifully handicapped even with all we could do. She'll always be an abstraction and a... a freak, cut off from the world by handicaps worse in their way than anything any human being ever suffered before. Sooner or later she'll realize it. And then- Can you imagine what it's like?" "Penned into a mechanical body like that, shut out from all human contacts except what leaks in by way of sight and sound? To know you aren't human any longer? She's been through shocks enough already. When that shock fully hits her- Of course they applauded, you fool," "I might have known they would under this setup. It doesn't prove anything. Oh, she was smart to surprise them- I admit that. But they were applauding themselves as much as her. Excitement, gratitude for letting them in on a historic performance, mass hysteria- you know. It's from now on the test will come, and this hasn't helped any to prepare her for it. Morbid curiosity when the news gets out- people laughing when she forgets she isn't human. And they will, you know. There are always those who will. And the novelty wearing off. The slow draining away of humanity for lack of contact with any human stimuli any more- I wish you'd go now," "I've made up my mind, Harris. I've got to put a stop to this." "I have a reason," "But you won't believe it. Nobody would." "Nobody could believe it. No two people were ever in quite the same relationship before as Deirdre and I have been. I helped her come back out of complete oblivion. I knew her before she had voice or hearing. She was only a frantic mind when I first made contact with her, half insane with all that had happened and fear of what would happen next. In a very literal sense she was reborn out of that condition, and I had to guide her through every step of the way. I came to know her thoughts before she thought them. And once you've been that close to another mind, you don't lose the contact easily."  "Deirdre is worried," "I know it. You won't believe me, but I can- well, sense it. I tell you, I've been too close to her very mind itself to make any mistake. You don't see it, maybe. Maybe even she doesn't know it yet. But the worry's there. When I'm with her, I feel it. And I don't want it to come any nearer the surface of her mind than it's come already. I'm going to put a stop to this before it's too late." "I'm not sure yet. I've got to decide before she comes back. And I want to see her alone." "I can stop her," "She has enough already- she's nearly human. She can live normally as other people live, without going back on the screen. Maybe this taste of it will be enough. I've got to convince her it is. If she retires now, she'll never guess how cruel her own audiences could be, and maybe that deep sense of- distress, uneasiness, whatever it is- won't come to the surface. It mustn't. She's too fragile to stand that." "I've got to stop her. For her own sake I've got to do it!" "Will you go now?" "Come over,"  "She'll be here in half an hour." "I can't stop her," "I couldn't do it. I even tried threats, but she knew I didn't mean them. There's only one way out, Harris."  "Never mind. I'll tell you later." "Nearly all. I even taxed her with that - - that sense of distress I know she feels. She denied it. She was lying. We both knew. It was worse after the performance than before. When I saw her that night, I tell you I knew- she senses something wrong, but she won't admit it." "Well- Are you all right, Deirdre?" "You're lying." "You can't deceive me, Deirdre."  "I created you, my dear. I know. I've sensed that uneasiness in you growing and growing for a long while now. It's much stronger today than it was two weeks ago. Something happened to you in the country. I don't know what it was, but you've changed. Will you admit to yourself what it is, Deirdre? Have you realized yet that you must not go back on the screen?" "I've made a terrible mistake, Deirdre. I've done you irreparable harm." "I've made you vulnerable, and given you no weapons to fight your enemies with. And the human race is your enemy, my dear, whether you admit it now or later. I think you know that. I think it's why you're so silent. I think you must have suspected it on the stage two weeks ago, and verified it in Jersey while you were gone. They're going to hate you, after a while, because you are still beautiful, and they're going to persecute you because you are different- and helpless. Once the novelty wears off, my dear, your audience will be simply a mob." "I meant what I did for you,"  "to be for everyone who meets with accidents that might have ruined them. I should have known my gift would mean worse ruin than any mutilation could be. I know now that there's only one legitimate way a human being can create life. When he tries another way, as I did, he has a lesson to learn. Remember the lesson of the student Frankenstein? He learned, too. In a way, he was lucky- the way he learned. He didn't have to watch what happened afterward. Maybe he wouldn't have had the courage- I know I haven't." "We who bring life into the world unlawfully," "must make room for it by withdrawing our own. That seems to be an inflexible rule. It works automatically. The thing we create makes living unbearable. No, it's nothing you can help, my dear. I've asked you to do something I created you incapable of doing. I made you to perform a function, and I've been asking you to forego the one thing you were made to do. I believe that if you do it, it will destroy you, but the whole guilt is mine, not yours. I'm not even asking you to give up the screen, any more. I know you can't, and live. But I can't live and watch you. I put all my skill and all my love in one final masterpiece, and I can't bear to watch it destroyed. I can't live and watch you do only what I made you to do, and ruin yourself because you must do it. "But before I go, I have to make sure you understand."  "I can be a coward," "and escape the consequences of what I've done, but I can't go and leave you- not understanding. It would be even worse than the thought of your failure, to think of you bewildered and confused when the mob turns on you. What I'm telling you, my dear, won't be any real news- I think you sense it already, though you may not admit it to yourself. We've been too close to lie to each other, Deirdre- I know when you aren't telling the truth. I know the distress that's been growing in your mind. You are not wholly human, my dear. I think you know that. In so many ways, in spite of all I could do, you must always be less than human. You've lost the senses of perception that kept you in touch with humanity. Sight and hearing are all that remain, and sight, as I've said before, was the last and coldest of the senses to develop. And you're so delicately poised on a sort of thin edge of reason. You're only a clear, glowing mind animating a metal body, like a candle flame in a glass. And as precariously vulnerable to the wind." "Try not to let them ruin you completely," "When they turn against you, when they find out you're more helpless than they- I wish I could have made you stronger, Deirdre. But I couldn't. I had too much skill for your good and mine, but not quite enough skill for that." "I wish one thing, though," "I wish- before I finish- that you'd tell me the truth, Deirdre. I'd be happier if I were sure I'd -reached you. Do you understand what I've said? Do you believe me? Because if you don't, then I know you're lost beyond all hope. If you'll admit your own doubt- and I know you do doubt- I can think there may be a chance for you after all. Were you lying to me, Deirdre? Do you know how... how wrong I've made you?" "I'll wait," "Go on. Yes or no?" "You can't interfere from that distance," "But keep the distance. What do you want to say?" "You... you are an actress," "But I... I'm not convinced I'm wrong. I think- That was a trick," "Maybe you could play it on a larger audience, too. Maybe you have more tricks to use. I might be wrong. But Deirdre" "you haven't answered the one thing I've got to know. You can't answer it. You do feel- dismay. You've learned your own inadequacy, however well you can hide it from us- even from us. I know. Can you deny that, Deirdre?" "All right,"  "All right, you can stop me this time. But I know, you see. I know! You can't hide your feeling from me, Deirdre. I know the trouble you feel. And next time- next time I won't wait to talk!" "You... you do admit it, then?" "Deirdre- But Deirdre- but Deirdre, if we did succeed- what's wrong? I can feel it now- I've felt it all along. You're so unhappy- you still are. Why, Deirdre?" "You think I could be mistaken, knowing you as I do? But I'm not Frankenstein... you say my creation's flawless. Then what- I don't know. I doubt it. I- I don't believe anyone could. I think I was an accident. A sort of mutation halfway between flesh and metal. Something accidental and... and unnatural, turning off on a wrong course of evolution that never reaches a dead end. Another brain in a body like this might die or go mad, as you thought I would. The synapses are too delicate. You were- call it lucky- with me. From what I know now, I don't think a... a baroque like me could happen again." "But- not happy." "Then I am Frankenstein, after all."
