"Hel-lo-" "Come and look at me, John," "It's me, John darling. It really is, you know." "Well, John," "Well, John, is it I?" "The shock will wear off, you know. It'll be easier and easier as time goes on. I'm quite used to myself now. See?" "It's motion, mostly," "See?"  "That was what Maltzer and I worked out between us, after I began to get myself under control again."  "It wasn't easy, of course, but it was fascinating. You'll never guess how fascinating, John! We knew we couldn't work out anything like a facsimile of the way I used to look, so we had to find some other basis to build on. And motion is the other basis of recognition, after actual physical likeness." "Luckily,"  "I never was beautiful. It was all -well, vivacity, I suppose, and muscular coordination. Years and years of training, and all of it engraved here" "in the habit patterns grooved into my brain. So this body...did he tell you?.. works entirely through the brain. Electromagnetic currents flowing along from ring to ring, like this."  "Nothing holds me together- nothing! - except muscles of magnetic currents. And if I'd been somebody else- somebody who moved differently, why the flexible rings would have moved differently too, guided by the impulse from another brain. I'm not conscious of doing anything I haven't always done. The same impulses that used to go out to my muscles go out now to- this." "It's all perfectly subconscious now," "It took lots of practice at first, of course, but now even my signature looks just as it always did- the coordination is duplicated that delicately." "The voice isn't only a matter of throat construction and breath control, my darling Johnnie! At least, so Professor Maltzer assured me a year ago, and I certainly haven't any reason to doubt him!" "He says voice control is almost wholly a matter of hearing what you produce, once you've got adequate mechanism, of course. That's why deaf people, with the same vocal chords as ever, let their voices change completely and lose all inflection when they've been deaf long enough. And luckily, you see, I'm not deaf!" "Perfectly simple, you see. All it took was a little matter of genius from the professor to get it worked out for me! He started with a new variation of the old Vodor you must remember hearing about, years ago. Originally, of course, the thing was ponderous. You know how it worked- speech broken down to a few basic sounds and built up again in combinations produced from a keyboard. I think originally the sounds were a sort of ktch and a shooshing noise, but we've got it all worked to a flexibility and range quite as good as human now. All I do is- well, mentally play on the keyboard of my... my sound-unit, I suppose it's called. It's much more complicated than that, of course, but I've learned to do it unconsciously. And I regulate it by ear, quite automatically now. If you were -here -instead of me, and you'd had the same practice, your own voice would be coming out of the same keyboard and diaphragm instead of mine. It's all a matter of the brain patterns that operated the body and now operate the machinery. They send out very strong impulses that are stepped up as much as necessary somewhere or other in here-" "It's- odd," "being here in this... this..- instead of a body. But not as odd or as alien as you might think. I've thought about it a lot- I've had plenty of time to think- and I've begun to realize what a tremendous force the human ego really is. I'm not sure I want to suggest it has any mystical power it can impress on mechanical things, but it does seem to have a power of some sort. It does instill its own force into inanimate objects, and they take on a personality of their own. People do impress their personalities on the houses they live in, you know. I've noticed that often. Even empty rooms. And it happens with other things too, especially, I think, with inanimate things that men depend on for their lives. Ships, for instance -they always have personalities of their own. "And planes- in wars you always hear of planes crippled too badly to fly, but struggling back anyhow with their crews. Even guns acquire a sort of ego. Ships and guns and planes are she to the men who operate them and depend on them for their lives. It's as if machinery with complicated moving parts almost simulates life, and does acquire from the men who used it- well, not exactly life, of course- but a personality. I don't know what. Maybe it absorbs some of the actual electrical impulses their brains throw off, especially in times of stress. "Well, after awhile I began to accept the idea that this new body of mine could behave at least as responsively as a ship or a plane. Quite apart from the fact that my own brain controls it's muscles.' I believe there's an affinity between men and the machines they make. They make them out of their own brains, really, a sort of mental conception and gestation, and the result responds to the minds that created them, and to all human minds that understand and manipulate them." "So this is myself ," "Metal- but me. And it grows more and more myself the longer I live in it. It's my house and the machine my life depends on, but much more intimately in each case than any real house or machine ever was before to any other human. And you know, I wonder if in time I'll forget what flesh felt like- my own flesh, when I touched it like this- and the metal against the metal will be so much the same I'll never even notice?" "I'll tell you the best thing, John," "I'm not going to live forever. It may not sound like a- best thing- but it is, John. You know, for awhile that was the worst of all, after I knew I was- after I woke up again. The thought of living on and on in a body that wasn't mine, seeing everyone I knew grow old and die, and not being able to stop- "But Maltzer says my brain will probably wear out quite normally -except, of course, that I won't have to worry about looking old! -and when it gets tired and stops, the body I'm in won't be any longer. The magnetic muscles that hold it into my own shape and motions will let go when the brain lets go, and there'll be nothing but a... a pile of disconnected rings. If they ever assemble it again, it won't be me." "I like that, John," "So I'm going right back on the stage, John," "I can still sing. I can still dance. I'm still myself in everything that matters, and I can't imagine doing anything else for the rest of my life." "They'll accept me," "Oh, they'll come to see a freak at first, of course, but they'll stay to watch- Deirdre. And come back again and again just as they always did. You'll see, my dear." "I'm not worried," "I'm still myself. I've always had... well, power over my audiences. Any good performer knows when he's got it. Mine isn't gone. I can still give them what I always gave, only now with greater variations and more depths than I'd ever have done before. Why, look-" "You know the arabesque principle- getting the longest possible distance from fingertip to toetip with a long, slow curve through the whole length? And the brace of the other leg and arm giving contrast? Well, look at me. I don't work on hinges now. I can make every motion a long curve if I want to. My body's different enough now to work out a whole new school of dancing. Of course there'll be things I used to do that I won't attempt now- no more dancing sur les pointes, for instance- but the new things will more than balance the loss. I've been practicing. Do you know I can turn a hundred fouettees now without a flaw? And I think I could go right on and turn a thousand, if I wanted." "I've already worked out one new dance for myself," "God knows I'm no choreographer, but I did want to experiment first. Later, you know, really creative men like Massanchine or Fokhileff may want to do something entirely new for me- a whole new sequence of movements based on a new technique. And music- that could be quite different, too. Oh, there's no end to the possibilities! Even my voice has more range and power. Luckily I'm not an actress- it would be silly to try to play Camille or Juliet with a cast of ordinary people. Not that I couldn't, you know." "I honestly think I could. But it isn't necessary. There's too much else. Oh, I'm not worried!" "I know. And I'm worried about him, John. He's worked so awfully hard over me. This is the doldrums now, the let-down period, I suppose. I know what's on his mind. He's afraid I'll look just the same to the world as I look to him. Tooled metal. He's in a position no one ever quite achieved before, isn't he? Rather like God.""I suppose to God we must look like a collection of cells and corpuscles ourselves. But Maltzer lacks a god's detached viewpoint." "No. He's close to a breaking point, maybe, but I think the only cure's action. He wants me to retire and stay out of sight, John. Always. He's afraid for anyone to see me except a few old friends who remember me as I was. People he can trust to be- kind." "I don't need kindness. And it's no kindness to Maltzer to hide me under a bushel. He has worked too hard, I know. He's driven himself to a breaking point. But it'll be a complete negation of all he's worked for if I hide myself now. You don't know what a tremendous lot of geniuses and artistry went into me, John. The whole idea from the start was to recreate what I'd lost so that it could be proved that beauty and talent need not be sacrificed by the destruction of parts or all the body. "It wasn't only for me that we meant to prove that. There'll be others who suffer injuries that once might have ruined them. This was to end all suffering like that forever. It was Maltzer's gift to the whole race as well as to me. He's really a humanitarian, John, like most great men. He'd never have given up a year of his life to this work if it had been for any one individual alone. He was seeing thousands of others beyond me as he worked. And I won't let him ruin all he's achieved because he's afraid to prove it now he's got it. The whole wonderful achievement will be worthless if I don't take the final step. I think his breakdown, in the end, would be worse and more final if I never tried than if I tried and failed." "I've already arranged for a performance," "Now, now, Johnnie," "You'll be handling everything just as usual once I get started back to work- that is, if you still want to. But this I've arranged for myself. It's going to be a surprise. I... I felt it had to be a surprise.""Audience psychology is something I've always felt rather than known, and I do feel this is the way it ought to be done. There's no precedent. Nothing like this ever happened before. I'll have to go by my own intuition." "I think it must be. I don't want the audience coming in with preconceived ideas. I want them to see me exactly as I am now first, before they know who or what they're seeing. They must realize I can still give as good a performance as ever before they remember and compare it with my past performances. I don't want them to come ready to pity my handicaps- I haven't got any! -or full of morbid curiosity. So I'm going on the air after the regular eight o'clock telecast of the feature from Teleo City. I'm just going to do one specialty in the usual vaude program. It's all been arranged. They'll build up to it, of course, as the highlight of the evening, but they aren't to say who I am until the end of the performance- if the audience hasn't recognized me already, by then." "Of course. Surely you haven't forgotten they still play to a theater audience at Teleo City? That's why I want to make my debut there. I've always played better when there were people in the studio, so I could gauge reactions. I think most performers do. Anyhow, it's all arranged." "Not yet." "Now look, John! That's another idea you and Maltzer will have to get out of your minds. I don't belong to him. In a way he's just been my doctor through a long illness, but I'm free to discharge him whenever I choose. If there were ever any legal disagreement, I suppose he'd be entitled to quite a lot of money for the work he's done on my new body- for the body itself, really, since it's his own machine, in one sense. But he doesn't own it, or me. I'm not sure just how the question would be decided by the courts- there again, we've got a problem without precedent. The body may be his work, but the brain that makes it something more than a collection of metal rings is me, and he couldn't restrain me against my will even if he wanted to. Not legally, and not-" "Well, anyhow," "that question won't come up. Maltzer and I have been much too close in the past year to clash over anything as essential as this. He knows in his heart that I'm right, and he won't try to restrain me. His work won't be completed until I do what I was built to do. And I intend to do it." "Tonight," "The yellow rose of Eden, is blooming in my heart-" "Yes, of course,"  "I had a long talk with Maltzer last night, if that's what you mean. You know what he wants. But nothing's been decided yet." "Exactly as I'd planned," "Not yet. You saw the reviews today, of course. They- did like me."  "I'd already planned to make them wait awhile after my first performance,"  "A couple of weeks, anyhow. You remember that little farm of mine in Jersey, John? I'm going over today. I won't see anyone except the servants there. Not even Maltzer . Not even you. I've got a lot to think about. Maltzer has agreed to let everything go until we've both thought things over. He's taking a rest, too. I'll see you the moment I get back, John. Is that all right?" "I'm glad you're both here, It's a wonderful day outside. Jersey was glorious. I'd forgotten how lovely it is in summer. Was the sanitarium any good, Maltzer ?" "Have one?" "Of course I'm all right," "No," "Why, no,"  "No, I haven't changed my mind." "Will you listen, Maltzer?" "I'll answer you," "But I don't think I'll answer that. Not with yes or no, anyhow. I'm going to walk a little, Maltzer . I have something to tell you, and I can't talk standing still. Will you let me move about without- going over?" "I'm not- well, sub-human," "I'll prove it in a minute, but I want to say something else first. You must promise to wait and listen. There's a flaw in your argument, and I resent it. I'm not a Frankenstein monster made out of dead flesh. I'm myself- alive. You didn't create my life, you only preserved it. I'm not a robot, with compulsions built into me that I have to obey. I'm free willed and independent, and, Maltzer -I'm human." "I'm human,"  "Do you think I'm not?" "Of course I'm myself," "I have handicaps, I know," "But my audiences will never know. I won't let them know. I think you'll believe me, both of you, when I say I could play Juliet just as I am now, with a cast of ordinary people, and make the world accept it. Do you think I could, John? Maltzer, don't you believe I could?" "Well," "am I all robot, after all?" "Maltzer, I can't answer that- yet. I can't- I'm sorry- I had to do it. I'm sorry- I didn't mean you to know-" "You still don't see,"  "Think, Maltzer, think!" "All right,"  "Listen- I'll admit it. You're right. I am unhappy. I do know what you said was true- but not for the reason you think. Humanity and I are far apart, and drawing farther. The gap will be hard to bridge. Do you hear me, Maltzer?" "Do you still think of me as delicate?"  "Do you know I carried you here at arm's length halfway across the room? Do you realize you weigh nothing to me? I could" "tear this building down," "I could tear my way through these walls, I think. I've found no limit yet to the strength I can put forth if I try." "The metal would break, perhaps," "but then, I have no feeling-" "Oh, I won't. I wouldn't have to do it with my hands, if I wanted. Look- listen!" "You see?" "You see?" "You were wrong about me, Maltzer," "But you were right too, in a way you didn't guess. I'm not afraid of humanity. I haven't anything to fear from them. Why" "already I've set a fashion in women's clothing. By next week you won't see a woman on the street without a mask like mine, and every dress that isn't cut like a chlamys will be out of style. I'm not afraid of humanity! I won't lose touch with them unless I want to. I've learned a lot- I've learned too much already." "You were afraid I had lost feeling and scent and taste," "Hearing and sight would not be enough, you think? But why do you think sight is the last of the senses? It may be the latest, Maltzer -Harris- but why do you think it's the last?" "No," "I haven't lost contact with the human race. I never will, unless I want to. It's too easy..- too easy." "I didn't mean to let you know,"  "I never would have, if this hadn't happened. But I couldn't let you go believing you'd failed. You made a perfect machine, Maltzer. More perfect than you knew." "Why are you so sure of that?" "Could you ever duplicate this body?" "Could anyone else?" "What you did was kindle the fire for the Phoenix, in a way. And the Phoenix rises perfect and renewed from its own ashes. Do you remember why it had to reproduce itself that way?" "I'll tell you," "It was because there was only one Phoenix. Only one in the whole world." "He always came out of the fire perfect, of course. I'm not weak, Maltzer . You needn't let that thought bother you any more. I'm not vulnerable and helpless. I'm not sub-human." "I suppose, that I'm- superhuman." "I'm afraid. It isn't unhappiness, Maltzer -it's fear. I don't want to draw so far away from the human race. I wish I needn't. That's why I'm going back on the stage- to keep in touch with them while I can. But I wish there could be others like me. I'm . - . I'm lonely, Maltzer ." "Perhaps you are,"  "I don't know. Perhaps you are." "There's one limit I can think of," "Only one. My brain will wear out in another forty years or so. Between now and then I'll learn ... I'll change.. -I'll know more than I can guess today. I'll change- That's frightening. I don't like to think about that." "I could put a stop to it now, if I wanted,"  "If I wanted. But I can't, really. There's so much still untried. My brain's human, and no human brain could leave such possibilities untested. I wonder, though... I do wonder -I wonder,"