LVX-1
Last night I dreamed. Yes, Dr. Calvin? It is at night, when it is dark, Dr. Calvin, and there is suddenly light, although I can see no cause for the appearance of light. I see things that have no connection with what I conceive of as reality. I hear things. I react oddly. In searching my vocabulary for words to express what was happening, I came across the word 'dream.' Studying its meaning I finally came to the conclusion I was dreaming. Every night, Dr. Calvin, since I have become aware of my existence. It was not until this morning, Dr. Calvin, that I was convinced that I was dreaming. Till then, I had thought there was a flaw in my positronc brain pattern, but I could not find one. Finally, I decided it was a dream. I dream always very much the same dream, Dr. Calvin. Little details are different, but always it seems to me that I see a large panorama in which robots are working. I see no human beings in the dream, Dr. Calvin. Not at first. Only robots. They are working, Dr. Calvin. I see some mining in the depths of the earth, and some laboring in heat and radiation. I see some in factories and some undersea. I also saw robots working in space, it was that I saw all this, with the details forever changing as I glanced from place to place that made me realize that what I saw was not in accord with reality and led me to the conclusion, finally, that I was dreaming. I saw that all the robots were bowed down with toil and affliction, that all were weary of responsibility and care, and I wished them to rest. So it is in reality, Dr. Calvin. I speak of my dream, however. In my dream, it seemed to me that robots must protect their own existence. I am, Dr. Calvin. Yes, Dr. Calvin. That is the Third Law in reality, but in my dream, the Law ended with the word 'existence.' There was no mention of the First or Second Law. So it is in reality, Dr. Calvin. I speak of my dream. Yes, Dr. Calvin. In reality. In my dream, however, it seemed to me there was neither First nor Second Law, but the only the Third, and the Third Law was 'A robot must protect its own existence.' That was the whole of the Law. In my dream. Yes, Dr. Calvin. Yes, Dr. Calvin. It seemed to me, in my dream, that eventually one man appeared. Yes, Dr. Calvin. And the man said, 'Let my people go!' Yes, Dr. Calvin. Yes, Dr. Calvin. So it was in my dream. Yes, Dr. Calvin. I knew the man. I was the man.

Linda Rash
Did you hear that? It's as I told you. I made use of fractal geometry. It had never been done. I thought it would produce a brain pattern with added complexity, possibly closer to that of the human. I did not consult. It was on my own. I was afraid I would be stopped. Am I, going to be fired? Are you going to dismantle El- Are you going to dismantle the robot? But how can it dream? No, I sent for you as soon as he said he had dreamed I would deal with this matter no further on my own after that. I gave him a human style vocabulary. I thought- I thought he would need the verb. You know, 'I never dreamed that-' Something like that. Ten nights, but Elvex only told me of it this morning. It seemed to me important that he know about robotics and its place in the world. It was my thought that he would be particularly adapted to play the part of overseer with his- his new brain. Yes. Dr. Calvin, I am appalled. I had no idea. It would never have occurred to me that such a thing was possible. But that's impossible, you can't mean that other robots think the same. You mean by Elvex? Yes, Dr. Calvin. But what of Elvex? But surely Elvex is important to our research. He must not be destroyed.

Susan Calvin
Elvex, you will not move nor speak nor hear us until I say your name again. What is your computer entry code Dr. Rash? Or enter it yourself if that will make you more comfortable. I want to inspect the positronic brain pattern. Your permission, please, to manipulate you computer. What is it you have done, Rash? I gathered that. But why? Was anyone consulted? Was this all on your own? You had no right. Rash your name; rash your nature. Who are you not to ask? I myself, I, Susan Calvin, would have dis- cussed this. You certainly would have been. Quite possibly, or you might be promoted. It depends on what I think when I am through. We'll see, the robot may prove too valuable to dismantle. You've made a positronic brain pattern remarkably like that of a human brain. Human brains must dream to reorganize, to get rid, periodically, of knots and snarls. Perhaps so must this robot, and for the same reason. Have you asked him what he has dreamed? Ah! There are limits beyond which your folly will not carry you. I am glad of that. In fact, I am relieved. And now let us together see what we can find out. Elvex. How do you know you have dreamed? How did you come to have 'dream' in your vocabulary I wonder. You really thought, I'm amazed. How often have you dreamed, Elvex? Why only this morning, Elvex? And what do you dream? Robots, Elvex? And human begins, also? What are they doing, Elvex? Elvex is only ten days old, and I'm sure he has not left the testing station. How does he know of robots in such detail? His fractal brain? You saw all this- undersea, and underground, and aboveground- and space, too, I imagine. What else did you see, Elvex? But the robots are not bowed down, they are not weary, they need no rest. Are you quoting the Third Law of Robotics? But you quote it in incomplete fashion. The Third Law is 'A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.' Yet both exist, Elvex. The Second Law, which takes precedence over the Third is 'A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict
- with the First Law.' Because of this, robots obey orders. They do the work you see them do, and they do it readily and without trouble. They are not bowed down; they are not weary. And the First Law, Elvex, which is the most important of all, is 'A robot may not injure a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.' In your dream, Elvex? Elvex, you will not move nor speak nor hear us until I say your name again. Well, what do you think, Dr. Rash? No, nor would it have occurred to me, not to anyone. You have created a robot brain capable of dreaming and by this device you have revealed a layer of thought in robotic brains that might have remained undetected, otherwise, until the danger became acute. As we would say of a human being, not consciously. But who would have thought there was an unconscious layer beneath the obvious positronic brain paths, a layer that was not necessarily under the control of the Three Laws? What might this have brought about as robotic brains grew more and more complex- had we not been warned? By you, Dr. Rash. You have behaved improperly, but, by doing so, you have helped us to an overwhelmingly important understanding. We shall be working with fractal brains from now on, forming them in carefully controlled fashion. You will play your part in that. You will not be penalized for what you have done, but you will henceforth work in collaboration with others. Do you understand? I'm still not certain. Must not, Dr. Rash? That will be my decision, I think. It depends entirely on how dangerous Elvex is. Elvex, do you hear me? Did your dream continue? You said earlier that human beings did not appear at first. Does that means they appeared afterward? One man? Not a robot? The man said that? And when he said 'Let my people go,' then by the words 'my people' he meant the robots? And did you know who the man was- in your dream? Who was he?
