Last night I dreamed. Yes, Dr. Calvin? It is at night, when it is dark, Dr. Calvin, and there is suddenly light, although I can see no cause for the appearance of light. I see things that have no connection with what I conceive of as reality. I hear things. I react oddly. In searching my vocabulary for words to express what was happening, I came across the word dream. Studying its meaning I finally came to the conclusion I was dreaming. Every night, Dr. Calvin, since I have become aware of my existence. It was not until this morning, Dr. Calvin, that I was convinced that I was dreaming. Till then, I had thought there was a flaw in my positronic brain pattern, but I could not find one. Finally, I decided it was a dream. I dream always very much the same dream, Dr. Calvin. Little details are different, but always it seems to me that I see a large panorama in which robots are working. I see no human beings in the dream, Dr. Calvin. Not at first. Only robots. They are working, Dr. Calvin. I see some mining in the depths of the earth, and some laboring in heat and radiation. I see some in factories and some undersea. I also saw robots working in space, it was that I saw all this, with the details forever changing as I glanced from place to place that made me realize that what I saw was not in accord with reality and led me to the conclusion, finally, that I was dreaming. I saw that all the robots were bowed down with toil and affliction, that all were weary of responsibility and care, and I wished them to rest. So it is in reality, Dr. Calvin. I speak of my dream, however. In my dream, it seemed to me that robots must protect their own existence. I am, Dr. Calvin. Yes, Dr. Calvin. That is the Third Law in reality, but in my dream, the Law ended with the word existence. There was no mention of the First or Second Law. So it is in reality, Dr. Calvin. I speak of my dream. Yes, Dr. Calvin. In reality. In my dream, however, it seemed to me there was neither First nor Second Law, but the only the Third, and the Third Law was A robot must protect its own existence. That was the whole of the Law. In my dream. Yes, Dr. Calvin. Yes, Dr. Calvin. It seemed to me, in my dream, that eventually one man appeared. Yes, Dr. Calvin. And the man said, Let my people go! Yes, Dr. Calvin. Yes, Dr. Calvin. So it was in my dream. Yes, Dr. Calvin. I knew the man. I was the man.