Top emergency. Top emergency. Top emergency. Report to your central Tie in. Right, Martel. No emergency like this, ever before. Report to Tie in. No need to decranch. Report as you are. ...and when the first men to go Up and Out went to the Moon, what did they find? Therefore they went further, to Mars and to Venus. The ships went out year by year, but they did not come back until the Year One of Space. Then did a ship come back with the First Effect. Scanners, I ask you, what is the First Effect? No one will ever know. Too many are the variables. By what do we know the First Effect? And by what further sign? And who stopped the need for death? And, Scanners, I ask you, what did he do? He made the habermans. How, O Scanners, are habermans made? And how, O Scanners, is flesh controlled? How does a haberman live and live? Whence come the habermans? Brothers and Scanners, I ask you now: are we habermans or are we not? We are habermans then? What must the others say to us? What is the secret duty of the Scanner? What is the second secret duty of the Scanner? How to destroy? If habermans die, what the duty then? If others die, what the duty then? And if the punishment be severe? And if Scanners not be honored? And if a Scanner goes unpaid? And if the Others and the Instrumentality are not in all ways at all times mindful of their proper obligation to the Scanners? And what, O Scanners, if no ships go? What is the known duty of a Scanner? What is the second duty of a Scanner? What is the third duty of a Scanner? What is the word of the Scanner? What is the motto of the Scanner? What is the work of the Scanner? How do you know a Scanner? What is this Code? Top Emergency. Top Emergency. Some of you know the work of Adam Stone? Adam Stone has gone to the Instrumentality, claiming success for his work. He says that he has found how to Screen Out the Pain of Space. He says that the Up and Out can be made safe for ordinary men to work in, to stay awake in. He says that there need be no more Scanners. Scanner Smith will speak. Scanners, be Scanners! Give him your eyes. I think that some of the Scanners disagree with our Brother Parizianski. I say that the use of the rostrum be suspended till we have had a chance for private discussion. In fifteen minutes I will call the meeting back to order. Scanners and Brothers, I call for a vote. We now vote on the question of Adam Stone. First, we can assume that he has not succeeded, and that his claims are lies. We know that from our practical experience as Scanners. The Pain of Space is only part of scanning, and we can rest assured that Stone cannot solve the problem of Space Discipline. The Space Discipline of our Confraternity has kept High Space clean of war and dispute. Sixty eight disciplined men control all High Space. We are removed by our oath and our haberman status from all Earthly passions. Therefore, if Adam Stone has conquered the Pain of Space, so that Others can wreck our confraternity and bring to Space the trouble and ruin which afflicts Earths, I say that Adam Stone is wrong. If Adam Stone succeeds, Scanners live in vain! Secondly, if Adam Stone has not conquered the Pain of Space, he will cause great trouble in all the Earths. The Instrumentality and the Subchiefs may not give us as many habermans as we need to operate the ships of Mankind. There will be wild stories, and fewer recruits, and, worst of all, the discipline of the Confraternity may relax if this kind of nonsensical heresy is spread around. Therefore, if Adam Stone has succeeded, he threatens the ruin of the Confraternity and should die. Therefore, if Adam Stone has not succeeded, he is a liar and a heretic, and should die. I move the death of Adam Stone. A Scanner came here cranched. Honorable Scanners, I apologize for this. It is not the fault of our great and worthy Scanner and friend, Martel. He came here under orders. I told him not to decranch. I hoped to spare him an unnecessary haberman. We all know how happily Martel is married, and we wish his brave experiment well. I like Martel. I respect his judgment. I wanted him here. I knew you wanted him here. But he is cranched. He is in no mood to share in the lofty business of the Scanners. I therefore propose a solution which will meet all the requirements of fairness. I propose that we rule Scanner Martel out of order for his violation of rules. This violation would be inexcusable if Martel were not cranched. But at the same time, in all fairness to Martel, I further propose that we deal with the points raised so improperly by our worthy but disqualified brother. Having the approval of our worthy Scanners and present company for the general proposal, I now move that this Committee declare itself to have the full authority of a Meeting, and that this Committee further make me responsible for all misdeeds which this Committee may enact, to be held answerable before the next full Meeting, but not before any other authority beyond the closed and secret ranks of Scanners. The Honorable Committee is now pleased to reaffirm the sentence of death issued against the heretic and enemy, Adam Stone. I call for the designation of the Senior Scanner present as the manager of the sentence. I call for authorization to him to appoint executioners, one or many, who shall make evident the will and majesty of Scanners. I ask that I be accountable for the deed, and not for the means. The deed is a noble deed, for the protection of Mankind and for the honor of the Scanners; but of the means it must be said that they are to be the best at hand, and no more. Who knows the true way to kill an Other, here on a crowded and watchful Earth? This is no mere matter of discharging a cylindered sleeper, no mere question of upgrading the needle of a haberman. When people die down here, it is not like the Up and Out. They die reluctantly. Killing within the Earth is not our usual business, O Brothers and Scanners, as you know well. You must choose me to choose my agent as I see fit. Otherwise the common knowledge will become the common betrayal whereas if I alone know the responsibility, I alone could betray us, and you will not have far to look in case the Instrumentality comes searching. Senior among you, I ask your loyalty and your silence. ...take good care of yourself... You come here cranched? You told him you were cranched? He still made you come? Then all this- it is not for Space? You could not go Up and Out? You are like ordinary men. Then why did he call us? Bzz bzz. Ha ha. Gd ol' boy. Is Vmct mad? Yr rght. Brother Scanners, I want your eyes. ...can't do this. Stone may have succeeded. If he has succeeded, it means the end of Scanners. It means the end of habermans, too. None of us will have to fight in the Up and Out. We won't have anybody else going Under the Wire for a few hours or days of being human. Everybody will be Other. Nobody will have to cranch, never again. Men can be men. The habermans can be killed decently and properly, the way men were killed in the Old Days, without anybody keeping them alive. They won't have to work in the Up and Out! There will be no more Great Pain- think of it! No... more... Great... Pain! How do we know that Stone is a liar- Parizianski Scanner on duty and DC Calls taken by Scanner Relay. Get out of my way. I am on a mission. Get out of my way. By order of the Confraternity, get out of my way! Get a Scanner, I need help, get a Scanner... You break precedents. Luci must be angry to lose you? What? I practiced with soundtracks. Funny you noticed it. I think I am the only Scanner in or between the Earths who can pass for an Ordinary Man. Mirrors and soundtracks. I found out how to act. No. I don't feel, or taste, or hear, or smell things, any more than you do. Talking doesn't do me much good. But I notice that it cheers up the people around me. My father insisted on it. He said, You may be proud of being a Scanner. I am sorry you are not a Man. Conceal your defects. So I tried. I wanted to tell the old boy about the Up and Out, and what we did there, but it did not matter. He said, Airplanes were good enough for Confucius, and they are for me too. The old humbug! He tries so hard to be a Chinese when he can't even read Old Chinese. But he's got wonderful good sense, and for somebody going on two hundred he certainly gets around. You're as restless as water in mid air! What's the matter? Decranching? Lot of difference that makes! Who can tell the difference between a Meeting and a Committee? That tripe again. Which question do you want me to answer? No. No. No. No. I am a Scanner. The vote has been taken. You would do the same if you were not in this unusual condition. What is murder? Have you not killed? You are not one of the Others. You are a Scanner. You will be sorry for what you are about to do, if you do not watch out. No. I talk to you. I am your friend. Why not? Nothing, Martel. Nothing. No. It will do no good. He will not help you, because he has the job. Vomact designated him to kill Adam Stone. Nothing. No one knows. No one knows. By the Great Pain of Space, By the need, oh the need for death. Henry Haberman conquered the first effect, in the Year 3 of Space. They are made with the cuts. The brain is cut from the heart, the lungs. The brain is cut from the ears, the nose. The brain is cut from the mouth, the belly. The brain is cut from desire, and pain. The brain is cut from the world. Save for the eyes. Save for the control of the living flesh. By the boxes set in the flesh, the controls set in the chest, the signs made to rule the living body, the signs by which the body lives. The haberman lives by control of the boxes. Habermans are the scum of Mankind. Habermans are the weak, the cruel, the credulous, and the unfit. Habermans are the sentenced to more than death. Habermans live in the mind alone. They are killed for Space but they live for Space. They master the ships that connect the Earths. They live in the Great Pain while ordinary men sleep in the cold cold sleep of the transit. We are habermans in the flesh. We are cut apart, brain and flesh. We are ready to go to the Up and Out. All of us have gone through the Haberman Device. Habermans we are, and more, and more. We are the Chosen who are habermans by our own free will. We are the Agents of the Instrumentality of Mankind. They must say to us, You are the bravest of the brave, the most skillful of the skilled. All Mankind owes most honor to the Scanner, who unites the Earths of Mankind. Scanners are the protectors of the habermans. They are the judges in the Up and Out. They make men live in the place where men need desperately to die. They are the most honored of mankind, and even the Chiefs of the Instrumentality are delighted to pay them homage! To obey the Instrumentality only in accordance with Scanner Law. To keep secret our law, and to destroy the acquirers thereof. Twice to the Overload, back and Dead. Scanners together inform the Instrumentality. Scanners together accept the punishment. Scanners together settle the case. Then no ships go. Then no ships go. Then no ships go. Then no ships go. The Earths fall apart. The Wild comes back in. The Old Machines and the Beasts return. Not to sleep in the Up and Out. To keep forgotten the name of fear. To use the wire of Eustace Cranch only with care, only with moderation. To cranch only at home, only among friends, only for the purpose of remembering, of relaxing, or of begetting. Faithful though surrounded by death. Awake though surrounded by silence. Labor even in the heights of the Up and Out, loyalty even in the depths of the Earths. We know ourselves. We are dead though we live. And we Talk with the Tablet and the Nail. This code is the friendly ancient wisdom of Scanners, briefly put that we may be mindful and be cheered by our loyalty to one another. The Red Asteroid. The Other who lives at the edge of Space. I say that this is a lie. I say that Stone is a liar. I say that the Instrumentality must not be deceived. I invoke the secret duty of the Scanners. I say that Stone must die. Who speaks for the Scanners Out in Space? I yield to the Senior in Command. But I do not yield to a Meeting of the Confraternity. There are sixty eight Scanners, and only forty seven present, of whom one is cranched and UD I have therefore proposed that the Senior in Command assume authority only over an Emergency Committee of the Confraternity, not over a Meeting. Is that agreed and understood by the Honorable Scanners?