Luci:
Darling . . . you're my husband . . . right to love you . . . dangerous . . . do it . . . dangerous . . . wait. . . . love you . . . your own good . . . don't you think I want you to be human? . . . your own good . . . too much . . . he said . . . they said . . . Ready, darling? Ready at last? You sound all right. Are you all right, really? But you know you shouldn't have! You shouldn't! Come on, darling, let's have a good time. I have almost everything there is in the icebox all your favorite tastes. And I have two new records just full of smells. I tried them out myself, and even I liked them. And you know me- Which what, you old darling? Well-l-l,there were some lamb chops that were the strangest things- Wait till you smell them. Then guess. I'll tell you this much. It's a smell hundreds and hundreds of years old. They found about it in the old books. I won't tell you. You've got to wait, Now sniff! That's just right! You're right. It should make you want to eat me. It's meat. Not a person, a Beast. A Beast which people used to eat. A lamb was a small sheep- you've seen sheep out in the Wild, haven't you? -and a chop is part of its middle -here! You'd better rest, honey. But you're a Scanner! You are the bravest of the brave, the most skillful of the skilled. All Mankind owes most honor to the Scanner, who unites the Earths of mankind. Scanners are the protectors of the habermans. They are the judges in the Up-and-Out. They make men live in the place where men need desperately to die. They are the most honored of Mankind, and even the Chiefs of the Instrumentality are delighted to pay them homage! 'Scanners work for more than pay. They are the strong guards of Mankind.' Don't you remember that? Of course, darling, of course- Sit down, darling. Let me make you some kind of a drink. You're overwrought. I'm not blaming you, darling. Let's enjoy your cranch. Sit down now, and have a drink. I can find out what it is, darling. Here, take your drink and sit down. I'm sorry. Take good care of yourself, darling. I'll wait. Good luck! My darling husband! You're back again, to stay! Yes, darling? What is it? Scanners. Oh, yes, darling, they're all right. They had to arrest some of them for going into High speed and running away. But the Instrumentality caught them all- all those on the ground- and they're happy now. Do you know, darling, some of them didn't want to be restored to normality. But Stone and the Chiefs persuaded them. He's fine, too. He's staying cranched until he can be restored. Do you know, he has arranged for Scanners to take new jobs. You're all Deputy Chiefs for Space. Isn't that nice? But he got himself made Chief for Space. You're all going to be pilots, so that your fraternity and guild can go on. And Chang's getting changed back right now. You'll see him soon. I might as well tell you now. You'll worry otherwise. There has been one accident. Only one. When you and your friend called on Adam Stone, your friend was so happy that he forgot to scan, and he let himself die of Overload. Yes. Don't you remember? Your friend. Parizianski.

Martel:
I tell you, I must cranch. I have to cranch. It's my worry, isn't it? I tell you, I am going to cranch. Can't you understand what it means to me? To get out of this horrible prison in my own head? To be a man again hearing your voice, smelling smoke? To feel again to feel my feet on the ground, to feel the air move against my face? Don't you know what it means? Do you think I wanted you to marry a Scanner? Didn't I tell you we're almost as low as the habermans? We're dead, I tell you. We've got to be dead to do our work. How can anybody go to the Up-and-Out? Can you dream what raw Space is? I warned you. But you married me. All right, you married a man. Please, darling, let me be a man. Let me hear your voice, let me feel the warmth of being alive, of being human. Let me! But I did! Which? You know what I meant, Luci . . . the smells, which you have. Which one did you like, on the record? What are lambchops? Is a lambchop a Beast? Tell me, darling! Tell me, or I'll eat you up! What? Meat. Who? Cut- off- that- smell. Forgive me, Luci. I suppose I shouldn't have cranched. Not so soon again. But darling, I have to get out from being a haberman. How can I ever be near you? How can I be a man- not hearing my own voice, not even feeling my own life as it goes through my veins? I love you, darling. Can't I ever be near you? I know I'm a Scanner. But so what? Luci, we've heard that all before. But does it pay us back- But our lives, Luci. What can you get out of being the wife of a Scanner? Why did you marry me? I'm human only when I cranch. The rest of the time- you know what I am. A machine. A man turned into a machine. A man who has been killed and kept alive for duty. Don't you realize what I miss? Don't you think I remember my childhood? Don't you think I remember what it is to be a man and not a haberman? To walk and feel my feet on the ground? To feel decent clean pain instead of watching my body every minute to see if I'm alive? How will I know if I'm dead? Did you ever think of that, Luci? How will I know if I'm dead? No, I'm not! Listen to me. How do you think it feels to be in the Up-and-Out with the crew tied-for-Space all around you? How do you think it feels to watch them sleep? How do you think I like scanning, scanning, scanning month after month, when I can feel the Pain-of-Space beating against every part of my body, trying to get past my Haberman blocks? How do you think I like to wake the men when I have to, and have them hate me for it? Have you ever seen habermans fight- strong men fighting, and neither knowing pain, fighting until one touches Overload? Do you think about that, Luci? Can you blame me if I cranch, and come back to being a man, just two days a month? Cranching. Busy. Leave it alone, No one has a right to call when I'm cranching. He knows that. He ought to know that. Scanner Martel present and waiting, sir. Sir, I am under the wire. Sir, don't you understand? I... am... under... the... wire. Unfit... for... Space! But, sir, no emergency like this- This is the first time I've felt flight in- in eleven years. Lord, but it's easy to fly if you can feel yourself live! Vomact called. Top emergency. Yes. Yes. That's right. Vomact is the Senior of Scanners. I am sure that he could not go mad. Would he not see it on his boxes first? She took it well. Chang, that's strange. I'm cranched, and I can hear. Your voice sounds all right. How did you learn to talk like- like an ordinary person? But you don't...? It would make a difference in the life of Luci. In his airplane? Did you see what Chang said about his father? The old boy uses an airplane. Am crnchd. Rspctfly requst prmissn lv now, stnd by fr orders. A Committee has no right to vote death by a majority vote. It takes two-thirds of a full Meeting. Honorable Scanners, this is judicial murder. You endanger the Confraternity. What are we going to do? You're not going to let them kill Adam Stone, are you? Don't you realize what Stone's work will mean to us, if it succeeds? No more scanning. No more Scanners. No more habermans. No more Pain in the Up-and-Out. I tell you, if the others were all cranched, as I am, they would see it in a human way, not with the narrow crazy logic which they used in the meeting. We've got to stop them. How can we do it? What are we going to do? What does Parizianski think? Who has been chosen? Will you help me? You won't help? Why not, Chang? Why not? I'm not in an unusual condition. I'm cranched. That merely means that I see things the way that the Others would. I see the stupidity. The recklessness. The selfishness. It is murder. But why did you vote against Vomact then? Didn't you too see what Adam Stone means to all of us? Scanners will live in vain. Thank God for that! Can't you see it? But you talk to me, Chang. You are my friend? But what are you going to do? Will you help me? Not even to save Stone? Then I will go to Parizianski for help. Why not? He's more human than you, right now. Adam Stone will have two visitors tonight. Two Scanners, who are the friends of one another. And the world, depends on which of us gets there first. Help me to pass for an Other! I am a Man. Name, number, rank, purpose, function, time departed. Martel. Sunward 4234, 182nd Year of Space. Rank, rising Subchief. Purpose, personal and lawful within the limits of this city. No function of the Instrumentality. Departed Chief Outport 2019 hours. Your Honorable sufferance is requested. I have that which I need, but beg of the city a favor. My friend Adam Stone is here. I desire to see him, on urgent and personal lawful affairs. No. I have forgotten it. Truly. Watcher, doubt me and call your Subchief. We were friends in childhood. He has crossed the- He has leapt from Earth to Earth, and has just now returned. I knew him well and I seek him out. I have word of his kith. May the Instrumentality protect us! Emergency none. Martel Scanner calling Parizianski Scanner. Tell him I am Martel. The husband of Luci. None. You do not know me. I lied. My name is Martel, and I mean you no harm. But I lied. I beg the Honorable gift of your hospitality. Remain armed. Direct your weapon against me- Good. Keep on guard against me. It will give you confidence in what I shall say. But do, I beg you, give us a screen of privacy. I want no casual lookers. This is a matter of life and death. Yours and mine, and the worlds'. I am Scanner Thirty-four. I am cranched. Have you never seen it before? The truth. Do you fear me? Is it true that you have conquered the Great Pain? Quick, can you tell me how you have done it, so that I may believe you? Life? Those are Beasts? But they were Beasts? You! You came here alone? I believe you now. It is true. No more Scanners. No more habermans. No more cranching. I must tell you that- It is pleasure. It's normality- for a while. But listen. The Scanners have sworn to destroy you, and your work. They have met and have voted and sworn. You will make Scanners unnecessary, they say. You will bring the Ancient Wars back to the world, if Scanning is lost and the Scanners live in vain! No, you fool. I have betrayed the Confraternity. Call guards the moment I escape. Keep guards around you. I will try to intercept the killer. I know it. I stop you here and now. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stone is right. Parizianski, friend, friend, my friend. Stop. Stop.

Still cranched? Alive? But I can hear! I can feel! Scanners? Vomact? Called on Stone?

Vomact:
Top emergency. Top emergency. Top emergency. Report to your central Tie-in. Right, Martel. No emergency like this, ever before. Report to Tie-in. No need to de-cranch. Report as you are. ...and when the first men to go Up and Out went to the Moon, what did they find? Therefore they went further, to Mars and to Venus. The ships went out year by year, but they did not come back until the Year One of Space. Then did a ship come back with the First Effect. Scanners, I ask you, what is the First Effect? No one will ever know. Too many are the variables. By what do we know the First Effect? And by what further sign? And who stopped the need for death? And, Scanners, I ask you, what did he do? He made the habermans. How, O Scanners, are habermans made? And how, O Scanners, is flesh controlled? How does a haberman live and live? Whence come the habermans? Brothers and Scanners, I ask you now: are we habermans or are we not? We are habermans then? What must the others say to us? What is the secret duty of the Scanner? What is the second secret duty of the Scanner? How to destroy? If habermans die, what the duty then? If others die, what the duty then? And if the punishment be severe? And if Scanners not be honored? And if a Scanner goes unpaid? And if the Others and the Instrumentality are not in all ways at all times mindful of their proper obligation to the Scanners? And what, O Scanners, if no ships go? What is the known duty of a Scanner? What is the second duty of a Scanner? What is the third duty of a Scanner? What is the word of the Scanner? What is the motto of the Scanner? What is the work of the Scanner? How do you know a Scanner? What is this Code? Top Emergency. Top Emergency. Some of you know the work of Adam Stone? Adam Stone has gone to the Instrumentality, claiming success for his work. He says that he has found how to Screen Out the Pain of Space. He says that the Up-and-Out can be made safe for ordinary men to work in, to stay awake in. He says that there need be no more Scanners. Scanner Smith will speak. Scanners, be Scanners! Give him your eyes. I think that some of the Scanners disagree with our Brother Parizianski. I say that the use of the rostrum be suspended till we have had a chance for private discussion. In fifteen minutes I will call the meeting back to order. Scanners and Brothers, I call for a vote. We now vote on the question of Adam Stone. First, we can assume that he has not succeeded, and that his claims are lies. We know that from our practical experience as Scanners. The Pain of Space is only part of scanning, and we can rest assured that Stone cannot solve the problem of Space Discipline. The Space Discipline of our Confraternity has kept High Space clean of war and dispute. Sixty-eight disciplined men control all High Space. We are removed by our oath and our haberman status from all Earthly passions. Therefore, if Adam Stone has conquered the Pain of Space, so that Others can wreck our confraternity and bring to Space the trouble and ruin which afflicts Earths, I say that Adam Stone is wrong. If Adam Stone succeeds, Scanners live in vain! Secondly, if Adam Stone has not conquered the Pain of Space, he will cause great trouble in all the Earths. The Instrumentality and the Subchiefs may not give us as many habermans as we need to operate the ships of Mankind. There will be wild stories, and fewer recruits, and, worst of all, the discipline of the Confraternity may relax if this kind of nonsensical heresy is spread around. Therefore, if Adam Stone has succeeded, he threatens the ruin of the Confraternity and should die. Therefore, if Adam Stone has not succeeded, he is a liar and a heretic, and should die. I move the death of Adam Stone. A Scanner came here cranched. Honorable Scanners, I apologize for this. It is not the fault of our great and worthy Scanner and friend, Martel. He came here under orders. I told him not to de-cranch. I hoped to spare him an unnecessary haberman. We all know how happily Martel is married, and we wish his brave experiment well. I like Martel. I respect his judgment. I wanted him here. I knew you wanted him here. But he is cranched. He is in no mood to share in the lofty business of the Scanners. I therefore propose a solution which will meet all the requirements of fairness. I propose that we rule Scanner Martel out of order for his violation of rules. This violation would be inexcusable if Martel were not cranched. But at the same time, in all fairness to Martel, I further propose that we deal with the points raised so improperly by our worthy but disqualified brother. Having the approval of our worthy Scanners and present company for the general proposal, I now move that this Committee declare itself to have the full authority of a Meeting, and that this Committee further make me responsible for all misdeeds which this Committee may enact, to be held answerable before the next full Meeting, but not before any other authority beyond the closed and secret ranks of Scanners. The Honorable Committee is now pleased to reaffirm the sentence of death issued against the heretic and enemy, Adam Stone. I call for the designation of the Senior Scanner present as the manager of the sentence. I call for authorization to him to appoint executioners, one or many, who shall make evident the will and majesty of Scanners. I ask that I be accountable for the deed, and not for the means. The deed is a noble deed, for the protection of Mankind and for the honor of the Scanners; but of the means it must be said that they are to be the best at hand, and no more. Who knows the true way to kill an Other, here on a crowded and watchful Earth? This is no mere matter of discharging a cylindered sleeper, no mere question of upgrading the needle of a haberman. When people die down here, it is not like the Up-and-Out. They die reluctantly. Killing within the Earth is not our usual business, O Brothers and Scanners, as you know well. You must choose me to choose my agent as I see fit. Otherwise the common knowledge will become the common betrayal whereas if I alone know the responsibility, I alone could betray us, and you will not have far to look in case the Instrumentality comes searching. Senior among you, I ask your loyalty and your silence. ...take good care of yourself...

Parizianski:
You come here cranched? You told him you were cranched? He still made you come? Then all this- it is not for Space? You could not go Up-and-Out? You are like ordinary men. Then why did he call us? Bzz bzz. Ha ha. Gd ol' boy. Is Vmct mad? Yr rght. Brother Scanners, I want your eyes. ...can't do this. Stone may have succeeded. If he has succeeded, it means the end of Scanners. It means the end of habermans, too. None of us will have to fight in the Up-and-Out. We won't have anybody else going Under-the-Wire for a few hours or days of being human. Everybody will be Other. Nobody will have to cranch, never again. Men can be men. The habermans can be killed decently and properly, the way men were killed in the Old Days, without anybody keeping them alive. They won't have to work in the Up-and-Out! There will be no more Great Pain- think of it! No... more... Great... Pain! How do we know that Stone is a liar- Parizianski Scanner on duty and D.C. Calls taken by Scanner Relay. Get out of my way. I am on a mission. Get out of my way. By order of the Confraternity, get out of my way! Get a Scanner, I need help, get a Scanner...

Chang:
You break precedents. Luci must be angry to lose you? What? I practiced with soundtracks. Funny you noticed it. I think I am the only Scanner in or between the Earths who can pass for an Ordinary Man. Mirrors and soundtracks. I found out how to act. No. I don't feel, or taste, or hear, or smell things, any more than you do. Talking doesn't do me much good. But I notice that it cheers up the people around me. My father insisted on it. He said, 'You may be proud of being a Scanner. I am sorry you are not a Man. Conceal your defects.' So I tried. I wanted to tell the old boy about the Up-and-Out, and what we did there, but it did not matter. He said, 'Airplanes were good enough for Confucius, and they are for me too.' The old humbug! He tries so hard to be a Chinese when he can't even read Old Chinese. But he's got wonderful good sense, and for somebody going on two hundred he certainly gets around. You're as restless as water in mid-air! What's the matter? Decranching? Lot of difference that makes! Who can tell the difference between a Meeting and a Committee? That tripe again. Which question do you want me to answer? No. No. No. No. I am a Scanner. The vote has been taken. You would do the same if you were not in this unusual condition. What is murder? Have you not killed? You are not one of the Others. You are a Scanner. You will be sorry for what you are about to do, if you do not watch out. No. I talk to you. I am your friend. Why not? Nothing, Martel. Nothing. No. It will do no good. He will not help you, because he has the job. Vomact designated him to kill Adam Stone.

Scanners:
Nothing. No one knows. No one knows. By the Great Pain of Space, By the need, oh the need for death. Henry Haberman conquered the first effect, in the Year 3 of Space. They are made with the cuts. The brain is cut from the heart, the lungs. The brain is cut from the ears, the nose. The brain is cut from the mouth, the belly. The brain is cut from desire, and pain. The brain is cut from the world. Save for the eyes. Save for the control of the living flesh. By the boxes set in the flesh, the controls set in the chest, the signs made to rule the living body, the signs by which the body lives. The haberman lives by control of the boxes. Habermans are the scum of Mankind. Habermans are the weak, the cruel, the credulous, and the unfit. Habermans are the sentenced-to-more-than-death. Habermans live in the mind alone. They are killed for Space but they live for Space. They master the ships that connect the Earths. They live in the Great Pain while ordinary men sleep in the cold cold sleep of the transit. We are habermans in the flesh. We are cut apart, brain and flesh. We are ready to go to the Up-and-Out. All of us have gone through the Haberman Device. Habermans we are, and more, and more. We are the Chosen who are habermans by our own free will. We are the Agents of the Instrumentality of Mankind. They must say to us, 'You are the bravest of the brave, the most skillful of the skilled. All Mankind owes most honor to the Scanner, who unites the Earths of Mankind. Scanners are the protectors of the habermans. They are the judges in the Up-and-Out. They make men live in the place where men need desperately to die. They are the most honored of mankind, and even the Chiefs of the Instrumentality are delighted to pay them homage!' To obey the Instrumentality only in accordance with Scanner Law. To keep secret our law, and to destroy the acquirers thereof. Twice to the Overload, back and Dead. Scanners together inform the Instrumentality. Scanners together accept the punishment. Scanners together settle the case. Then no ships go. Then no ships go. Then no ships go. Then no ships go. The Earths fall apart. The Wild comes back in. The Old Machines and the Beasts return. Not to sleep in the Up-and-Out. To keep forgotten the name of fear. To use the wire of Eustace Cranch only with care, only with moderation. To cranch only at home, only among friends, only for the purpose of remembering, of relaxing, or of begetting. Faithful though surrounded by death. Awake though surrounded by silence. Labor even in the heights of the Up-and-Out, loyalty even in the depths of the Earths. We know ourselves. We are dead though we live. And we Talk with the Tablet and the Nail. This code is the friendly ancient wisdom of Scanners, briefly put that we may be mindful and be cheered by our loyalty to one another. The Red Asteroid. The Other who lives at the edge of Space. 

Smith:
I say that this is a lie. I say that Stone is a liar. I say that the Instrumentality must not be deceived. I invoke the secret duty of the Scanners. I say that Stone must die.

Henderson:
Who speaks for the Scanners Out in Space? I yield to the Senior in Command. But I do not yield to a Meeting of the Confraternity. There are sixty-eight Scanners, and only forty-seven present, of whom one is cranched and U.D. I have therefore proposed that the Senior in Command assume authority only over an Emergency Committee of the Confraternity, not over a Meeting. Is that agreed and understood by the Honorable Scanners?

Guard:
Are you a Man? Time desired within the city. Sunward 4234 dash 182 rising Subchief Martel, enter the lawful gates of the city. Welcome. Do you desire food, raiment, money, or companionship? Did you have an appointment with Adam Stone? The city will find him. What is his number? You have forgotten it? Is not Adam Stone a Magnate of the Instrumentality? Are you truly his friend? No doubt implied. Why do you not know the number? This must go into the record,Heard and believed. Adam Stone will be searched. Adam Stone is found and awakened. He has asked pardon of the Honorable, and says he knows no Martel. Will you see Adam Stone in the morning? The city will bid you welcome. It will be done. Adam Stone consents to see you. Enter Chief Downport, and welcome. You are awaited, sir. Do you bear weapons, sir? Adam Stone is armed. He is lawfully armed by authority of the Instrumentality and by the liberty of this city. All those who enter are given warning.

Stone:
I am doing so. First: whose life and death? You are cryptic but I agree. Privacy, please. Sir, who are you? What brings you here? You a Scanner? I don't believe it. Not with men. On animals. Amazing! But- what do you want? Not with this, But I shall tell you the truth. I have loaded ships with life. Life. I don't know what the Great Pain is, but I did find that in the experiments, when I sent out masses of animals or plants, the life in the center of the mass lived longest. I built ships- small ones, of course- and sent them out with rabbits, with monkeys-. Yes. With small Beasts. And the Beasts came back unhurt. They came back because the walls of the ships were filled with life. I tried many kinds, and finally found a sort of life which lives in the waters. Oysters. Oysterbeds. The outermost oysters died in the great pain. The inner ones lived. The passengers were unhurt. Not only Beasts. Myself. I came through Space alone. Through what you call the Up-and-Out, alone. Awake and sleeping. I am unhurt. If you do not believe me, ask your brother Scanners. Come and see my ship in the morning. I will be glad to see you then, along with your brother Scanners. I am going to demonstrate before the Chiefs of the Instrumentality. Yes, alone. Go back and check your Scanners' register if you do not believe me. You never put me in a bottle to cross Space. Sir, tell me in the morning. Go enjoy your cranch. Isn't it supposed to be pleasure? Medically I know it well. But not in practice. What! You're a Scanner. Are you going to kill me- or try? ...not cranched. Do you understand me? Not cranched! You have gone back through the Haberman. I put you back first. I didn't know how it would work in practice, but I had the theory all worked out. You don't think the Instrumentality would waste the Scanners, do you? You go back to normality. We are letting the habermans die as fast as the ships come in. They don't need to live any more. But we are restoring the Scanners. You are the first. Do you understand me? You are the first. Take it easy, now.