O/G5/ Other Robots
LET ME KNOW SAMUEL ZOHAR BEN REUVEN BEGELMAN DOCTOR OF MEDICINE AND WHAT IT MEANS THAT HE IS A JEW. I HAVE NOT BEEN INSTRUCTED so. He called Galactic Federation and said, MOD 0885 THE SPACE ASSIGNED FOR ME IS NOT PERMITTED. IT HAS BEEN PRE-EMPTED BY A BEING CALLED Nutrivol SENDING POWDERED DRINKS TO TAU CETI INNER WORLDS. I AM CHECKING. YES. THAT COMPANY WENT INTO RECEIVERSHIP ONE STANDARD YEAR AGO. I SUSPECT SMUGGLING AND BRIBERY. I WILL WARN. THE SHIP WILL BE GONE BY THEN MOD 08 WHAT AM I TO DO? INVESTIGATE, MOD 842.
HOW AM I TO DO THAT? USE YOUR LOGIC. I am not in the way. I am to board ship for Pardes and it is against the law for this cargo to take my place. Are fruit drinks for desert worlds now made without fructose but with dextroamphetamine sulfate, diacetylmorphine, 2-acetyl-tetrahydrocannabinol- I was ordered by Galactic Federation to board this ship for Tau Ceti IV, and you may consult the legal department of Colonial Relations, but I will not be moved. Go away you savage creature! I am not a saviour, men of Pardes, Are you speaking your native tongue? Now Zahar has put up a barrier and shut you out- and I am not a redeemer- but what has happened to that man? There are some here that will ravage you no longer. Do you eat the flesh of these ones? I am not your master. See if there is food to gather here and I will try to reach Zahar. I have no name but a designation: O/ G5/842. I am only a machine. This forcefield is so noisy it probably has a malfunction. It is not wise to touch it. I doubt even radio would cross that. I will cry out, Cnidori. Go to a distance and cover your ears, because my voice can pierce a mountain of lead ore. Samuel Zohar ben Reuven Begelman tum off your forcefield for I have come from Galactic Federation to help you!!! I believe he is alive, but cannot reach the control. Let us in, Zahar, or the Unds will destroy all of your people!!! Now put up your shield!!! Wait here and feed yourselves. Zahar? You know you are the last Jew in the known universe, Rav Zohar. There is no one but me to say prayers for you. Yes, master. I would have told that to Galactic Federation, but they would not believe me, not being Jews. I was made new again and given orders. My growth in logic now allows me to understand that I cannot be of use to you in exactly the way Galactic Federation wished, but I can still make you more comfortable. The Cnidori needed me to save them from the Unds when you shut them out, and they tried to call me Saviour, Redeemer, master; I refused because I am a machine, but I let them call me Golem because I am a machine of deliverance. Shmuel Zohar hen Reuven Begelman, why do you allow those help- less ones to call you Rav Zohar and speak in your language? My designation is O/G5/842. Yes, Zahar. That one your Rabbi Moshe killed in the land of
Kana'an with all his people for no great provocation. But O is the height of my oxygen tolerance in Solthree terms; I cannot work at gravities of less than five newtons, and eight four two is my model number. Now Zohar, if you demand it I will turn myself off and be no more. But the people are within your gate; some of them have been killed and they
must still be cared for. I am sure your spirit will free itself in peace, Zahar. As for me, my shuttle is broken, I am wanted nowhere else, and I will rust in Pardes. Zohar believes you must learn to take care of yourselves, against the Unds and on your world,
because you cannot now depend on him. Zohar, you have taught the Cnidori so well that now they are capable of saying the prayers you long for so greatly. Is there a way in which that can be made permissible? Yes, Zohar. They are sentient beings. What is there to prevent it? I am not a man or woman either and though I know the Law I am ignorant in experience. I was thinking merely of prayers that God might listen to in charity or appreciation. I did not mean to upset you. I am not fulfilling my dutiesYou are nearly ready to rise from your bed and feed yourself, Zohar. Perhaps when you feel more of a man you may reconsider. I am stabilizing the land in order to grow crops of oilseed, lugwort and greenpleat, which are nourishing both to you and the Cnidori. I doubt Galactic Federation is going to give us anything more, and I also wish to store supplies. If other wandering tribes of Cnidori cross this territory it is better to share our plenty than fight over scarcity. Zahar, these Cnidori have decided to take Hebrew names, and they are calling themselves by letters: Aleph, Bet, Gimmel, and when those end at Tauf, by numbers: Echod, Shtaim, Sholosh. This does not seem correct to me but they will not take my word for it. Will you help them? I believe we must redesign the forcefield to keep the Unds out of the cultivated areas. Perhaps we have enough components in Stores or I can learn to make them. I expected so, Zohar. They know that you are ben Reuven and they have accepted your language and the names of your people. Is this not reasonable? You are the only authority left. You have taught them. I have pushed for nothing except to make you well. I taught nothing. You are more alive and healthy than you have long been, Zahar, and you have people who love you. Can you not let them do so? Do not trouble Rav Zahar with demands he cannot fulfill, no matter how much you desire to honour him. Later I will ask him to think if there is a way he can do as you wish, within the Law. It does not seem like a cooking vessel. Perhaps it is a casing in which they dispose of their dead. Both Zahar and his God have done imperfect acts. But now I will leave him alone, because he is very troubled. What is that? No, no! No! You shall make no sacrifices! Why were you doing such a terrible thing, Binyamin? That confounds my logic somewhat. All gods are One, and the One forgives whoever asks. Now come. I believe I hear the Unds again, and we need shelter close to home until we can build a wider one.
The man is sick and old, and he is not thinking clearly either, while you have demanded much of him. Truly you are an outrageous people, But I am only a machine. Zohar, you need not answer, but you must listen. Your people tell me they have made no sacrifices since they knew you. But Binyamin who longs to call himself your son, has tried to sacrifice himself to placate whatever gods may forgive his people, and would have died if I had not prevented him. After that they were ready to let the Unds kill them. I prevented that also, but they will not speak to me, or to you if you do not forgive them. I cannot do any more here and I have nothing further to say to you. Goodbye. To the store-room, to turn myself off. I have always said I was no more than a machine, and now I have reached the limit of my logic and my usefulness. Out by the field near the entrance, you will see them when the lightning flashes. He must tend to his spirit for himself, b'nei Avraham. My work is done. Zohar, do not weep. You will make yourself ill. They will forgive you anything- but if you ask you will only hurt yourself more deeply. And I make no judgments. If I must, then Zohar, I judge you a member of humanity who has saved more people than would be alive without him. I think you could not wish better. Yes, I believe I did. Surely my time is come. You are not children. Zohar told you that you must manage for yourselves. I doubt that Galactic Federation is interested. I will stay for that, but no longer. Now. Zohar taught you all he knew, and that was a great deal. But why must you learn all that? Here is Mishna, given by word of mouth from Scribe to Scribe for a thousand years. Fifth Division, Nezikin, which is Damages; Baba Metzia: the Middle Gate: 'If two took hold of a garment and one said, 'I found it,' and the other said, '/ found it,' or one said, 'I bought it,' and the other said, '/ bought it,' each takes an oath that he claims not less than half and they divide it...

Galactic Federation:
Regret cannot find one Jew yours faithfully. It is a pity we cannot spare one person to help that poor juddar. How can we? He is the last colonist on that world and refuses to be moved; we keep him alive at great expense already. I think perhaps we might send him a robot. One that can dig and speak recorded prayers. Not one of the new expensive ones. We ought to have some old machine good enough for last rites. O/G5/842, AROUSE YOURSELF AND BOARD THE SHIP Aleksandr Nevskii AT LOADING DOCK 377 BOUND FOR TAU CETI IV. YOUR SPACE HAS BEEN PRE-EMPTED FOR SHIPMENT 20 TONNES Nutrivol POWDERED DRINKS {39 FLAVOURS) TO DESERT WORLDS TAU CETI II AND III. You too must come and answer questions. You may pass.

"Beings"
You are blocking this shipment! Get out of the way, you old pile of scrap!

Samuel Zohar hen Reuven Begelman
Kindly send one mourner/gravedigger so I can die in peace respectfully. I want to die in peace and you are killing me with noise. What are you? Where is my kaddish? Then let me die without peace. You are only a machine, can't you understand that a machine can't pray? I am not your master. Why truly did you come? I don't care! Who needs a machine! You nudnik of a machine, my name is not Samuel and certainly not Shmuel! It is Zahar, and I let myself be called Sam because zohar is 'splendour' and you can't go through life as Splendour Begelman! I taught those Cnidori the Law and the Prophets to hear my own lan- guage spoken because my children are gone and my wife is dead. That is why they call me Teacher. And I shut them out so that they would be forced to make their own way in life before they began to call me Redeemer! What do you call yourself, Golem? Ah. Og the giant King of Bashan. That seems suitable. Og ha-Colem, before you learn how to tune an argument too fine remember that Master of the Word is one of the names of Satan. Moshe Rabbenu was a bad-tempered man, but he did very greatly, and I am no kind of warrior. Take care of the people, and me too if your... logic demands it- and I will consider how to conduct
myself off the world properly. In this place? Do you know what you are saying? How they may be made Jews? Prevent it! What is there to them that would make Jews? Everything they eat is neutral, neither kosher nor tref, so what use is the law of Kashrut? They live in mud- where are the rules of bathing and cleanliness? They had never had any kind of god or any thought of one, as far as they tell me-w hat does prayer mean? Do you know how they procreate? Could you imagine? They are so completely hermaphroditic the word is meaningless. They pair long enough to raise children together, but only until the children grow teeth and can forage. What you see that looks like a penis is really an ovipositor: each Cnidor who is ready deposit its eggs in the pouch of another, and an enzyme of the eggs stimulates the semen glands inside, and when one or two eggs become fertilized the pouch seals until the fetus is of a size to make the fluid pressure around it break the seal, and the young crawls up the belly of the·parent to suckle on the teat. Even if one or two among twenty are born incomplete, not one is anything you might call male or female! So tell me, what do you do with all the laws of marriage and divorce, sexual behavior, the duties of the man at prayer and the woman with the child? Leave me. Just go away. God doesn't need any more Jews! Yes, they would look ridiculous in skullcaps and prayer shawls with all those fringes dragging in mud....
What are you doing? You're too good to be true. Dear people, if you wish to take names in Hebrew you must take the names of human beings like those in Law and Prophets. The names of the Fathers: Avraham, Yitzhak, Yaakov; the Tribes: Yehuda, Simon, Binyamin; or if you prefer female names, the Mothers: Sarai, Rivkah, Rakhael, Leah. Whichever seems good to you. Next thing you know they will want a Temple. Now they tell me they must have surnames! I have no authority to make Jews of them! Damn you! You have been pushing for this! What does it matter now? There is no surname they can be given except the name of convert, which is hen Avraham or bat Avraham, according to the gender of the first name. And how can they be converts when they can keep no Law and do not even know God? And
whab does it matter now? Let them be b'nei A vraham! My children, Jews do not behave so. Converts must become Jews in the ways allowed to them. If you do not understand, I have not taught you well enough, and I am too old to teach more. I have yielded too much already to a people who do not worship God, and I am not even a Rabbi with such small authority as is given to one. But you must not worship me. They will be back again, And again and again. Why did I ever let you in? Lord God King of the Universe, what am I to do? No, it does not. No. It is a casing in which they make them dead. Many were killed by Unds, and some have starved, and the rest die of age. All those they weight and sink into the marshes. This is a sacrifice. They have a god, and its name is Baal. My children. Take this away and smash it until there is not a piece to recognize.
Og, where are you going? No Golem, wait! Don't take everything from me! There must be some end to foolishness, Where are they? These people were twelve when I found them, Now there are forty-six and I have known them for five generations. Children of Avraham, Jews have converted, and Jews have adopted, but never children of a different species, so there is no precedent I can find to let any one of you call yourself a child of Zohar, but as a community I see no reason why you cannot call your- selves b'nei Zohar, my children, collectively. I must tell you this while my head is still clear. And I can tell only you. It took me a long time to realize that I was the last Jew, though Galactic Federation kept saying so. I had been long alone, but that realization made me fiercely, hideously lonely. Perhaps you don't understand. I think you do. And then my loneliness turned itself inside out and I grew myself a kind of perverse pride. The last! The last! I would close the Book that was opened those thousands of years before, as great in a way as the first had been... but I had found the Cnidori, and they were a people to talk with and keep from going mad in loneliness- but Jews! They were ugly and filthy and the opposite of everything I saw as human. I despised them. Almost, I hated them... that was what wanted to be Jews! And I had started it by teaching them, because I was so lonely- and I had no way to stop it except to destroy them, and I nearly did that! And you- My soul is sick! It is like a boil that needs lancing, and it hurts so much! Who will forgive me? Who? But I must be judged! Let me have a little peace to die with! You knew all the time, didn't you? What are you? My mind is not gone yet. But what are you really, Og? You cannot answer. Ah well ... would you ask my people to come here now, so I can say goodbye? I doubt it will be long; they raise all kinds of uproar, but at least they can't cry. I have no advice for you, I have taught all I know and that is little enough because I am not very wise, but you will find the wise among yourselves. Now, whoever remembers, let him recite me a psalm. Not the twenty- third. I want the hundred and fourth, and leave out that stupid part at the end where the sinners are consumed from the earth.

Cnidori
Shalom-shalom, Saviour! No, Redeemer. We are Cnidori and we spoke Cnidri before we
reached this place in our wanderings, but we learned the language of Rav Zahar because he cared for us when we were lost and starving. He became very ill and shut himself away because he said he was not fit to look upon. The food he helped us store is eaten and the Unds are ravaging us. No, master. Only what grows from the ground. First we will skin one of these to make tents for shelter. It rains every hour. Tell us what name pleases you if you offended by the ways we address you. You are a machine of deliverance and so we will call you Golem. No, we are afraid of it. Then how can we reach Zahar, Golem, even if he is still alive? The Unds have surely heard you, because they are coming back again. We would do that, Golem, but we would also like to give comfort to our Teacher.
We do not wish to be b'nei Avraham, but b'nei Zohar, because we say to you, Og ha-Golem, and to you, Rav Zohar, that because Zahar has been as a father to us we feel as sons to him. Rav Zahar, we have come to tell you that we have sworn to worship your God. But we may worship the God who created such a man as you, and such teachings as you have taught us, and those men who made the great Golem. We will do whatever you advise, Golem. It is true that our ancestors worshipped a Being and made sacrifices, but none of that was done after Zahar gave us help. We were afraid he and his God would hold us in contempt. But it is a great sin in his eyes, I doubt that he will ever care for us again. Come quickly! Binyamin is doing nidset! Only come quickly! That is nidset, Golem. We thought, we thought that all of the gods were angry with us- our old god for leaving him and our new one for having worshipped the old- and that a sacrifice would take away the anger of all.
No! What good is such a God if even Zahar does not listen to Him and forgive us? Then, Golem, we will demand no more, but die among the Unds! No, Golem, no! How can you leave us now when we need you so greatly? But we have so much to learn. We do not know how to use the radio, and we want to tell Galactic Federation that Zohar is dead, and of all he and you have done for us. Nevertheless we will learn! Og ha-Golem, why must you waste yourself? We have so much to discover about the God we worship and the men who have worshipped Him! Indeed he taught us the Law and the Prophets, but he did not teach us the tongues of Aramaic or Greek, or Writings, or Mishna, or Talmud (Palestinian and Babylonian), or Tosefta, or Commentary, or- To keep it for others who may wish to know it when we are dead.