Regret cannot find one Jew yours faithfully. It is a pity we cannot spare one person to help that poor juddar. How can we? He is the last colonist on that world and refuses to be moved; we keep him alive at great expense already. I think perhaps we might send him a robot. One that can dig and speak recorded prayers. Not one of the new expensive ones. We ought to have some old machine good enough for last rites. O/G5/842, AROUSE YOURSELF AND BOARD THE SHIP Aleksandr Nevskii AT LOADING DOCK 377 BOUND FOR TAU CETI IV. YOUR SPACE HAS BEEN PRE-EMPTED FOR SHIPMENT 20 TONNES Nutrivol POWDERED DRINKS {39 FLAVOURS) TO DESERT WORLDS TAU CETI II AND III. You too must come and answer questions. You may pass. You are blocking this shipment! Get out of the way, you old pile of scrap! Kindly send one mourner gravedigger so I can die in peace respectfully. I want to die in peace and you are killing me with noise. What are you? Where is my kaddish? Then let me die without peace. You are only a machine, can't you understand that a machine can't pray? I am not your master. Why truly did you come? I don't care! Who needs a machine! You nudnik of a machine, my name is not Samuel and certainly not Shmuel! It is Zahar, and I let myself be called Sam because zohar is 'splendour' and you can't go through life as Splendour Begelman! I taught those Cnidori the Law and the Prophets to hear my own lan- guage spoken because my children are gone and my wife is dead. That is why they call me Teacher. And I shut them out so that they would be forced to make their own way in life before they began to call me Redeemer! What do you call yourself, Golem? Ah. Og the giant King of Bashan. That seems suitable. Og ha-Colem, before you learn how to tune an argument too fine remember that Master of the Word is one of the names of Satan. Moshe Rabbenu was a bad- tempered man, but he did very greatly, and I am no kind of warrior. Take care of the people, and me too if your... logic demands it- and I will consider how to conduct myself off the world properly. In this place? Do you know what you are saying? How they may be made Jews? Prevent it! What is there to them that would make Jews? Everything they eat is neutral, neither kosher nor tref, so what use is the law of Kashrut? They live in mud- where are the rules of bathing and cleanliness? They had never had any kind of god or any thought of one, as far as they tell me- what does prayer mean? Do you know how they procreate? Could you imagine? They are so completely hermaphroditic the word is meaningless. They pair long enough to raise children together, but only until the children grow teeth and can forage. What you see that looks like a penis is really an ovipositor: each Cnidor who is ready deposit its eggs in the pouch of another, and an enzyme of the eggs stimulates the semen glands inside, and when one or two eggs become fertilized the pouch seals until the fetus is of a size to make the fluid pressure around it break the seal, and the young crawls up the belly of the parent to suckle on the teat. Even if one or two among twenty are born incomplete, not one is anything you might call male or female! So tell me, what do you do with all the laws of marriage and divorce, sexual behavior, the duties of the man at prayer and the woman with the child? Leave me. Just go away. God doesn't need any more Jews! Yes, they would look ridiculous in skullcaps and prayer shawls with all those fringes dragging in mud.... What are you doing? You're too good to be true. Dear people, if you wish to take names in Hebrew you must take the names of human beings like those in Law and Prophets. The names of the Fathers: Avraham, Yitzhak, Yaakov; the Tribes: Yehuda, Simon, Binyamin; or if you prefer female names, the Mothers: Sarai, Rivkah, Rakhael, Leah. Whichever seems good to you. Next thing you know they will want a Temple. Now they tell me they must have surnames! I have no authority to make Jews of them! Damn you! You have been pushing for this! What does it matter now? There is no surname they can be given except the name of convert, which is hen Avraham or bat Avraham, according to the gender of the first name. And how can they be converts when they can keep no Law and do not even know God? And what does it matter now? Let them be b'nei A vraham! My children, Jews do not behave so. Converts must become Jews in the ways allowed to them. If you do not understand, I have not taught you well enough, and I am too old to teach more. I have yielded too much already to a people who do not worship God, and I am not even a Rabbi with such small authority as is given to one. But you must not worship me. They will be back again, And again and again. Why did I ever let you in? Lord God King of the Universe, what am I to do? No, it does not. No. It is a casing in which they make them dead. Many were killed by Unds, and some have starved, and the rest die of age. All those they weight and sink into the marshes. This is a sacrifice. They have a god, and its name is Baal. My children. Take this away and smash it until there is not a piece to recognize. Og, where are you going? No Golem, wait! Don't take everything from me! There must be some end to foolishness, Where are they? These people were twelve when I found them, Now there are forty-six and I have known them for five generations. Children of Avraham, Jews have converted, and Jews have adopted, but never children of a different species, so there is no precedent I can find to let any one of you call yourself a child of Zohar, but as a community I see no reason why you cannot call your- selves b'nei Zohar, my children, collectively. I must tell you this while my head is still clear. And I can tell only you. It took me a long time to realize that I was the last Jew, though Galactic Federation kept saying so. I had been long alone, but that realization made me fiercely, hideously lonely. Perhaps you don't understand. I think you do. And then my loneliness turned itself inside out and I grew myself a kind of perverse pride. The last! The last! I would close the Book that was opened those thousands of years before, as great in a way as the first had been... but I had found the Cnidori, and they were a people to talk with and keep from going mad in loneliness- but Jews! They were ugly and filthy and the opposite of everything I saw as human. I despised them. Almost, I hated them... that was what wanted to be Jews! And I had started it by teaching them, because I was so lonely- and I had no way to stop it except to destroy them, and I nearly did that! And you- My soul is sick! It is like a boil that needs lancing, and it hurts so much! Who will forgive me? Who? But I must be judged! Let me have a little peace to die with! You knew all the time, didn't you? What are you? My mind is not gone yet. But what are you really, Og? You cannot answer. Ah well ... would you ask my people to come here now, so I can say goodbye? I doubt it will be long; they raise all kinds of uproar, but at least they can't cry. I have no advice for you, I have taught all I know and that is little enough because I am not very wise, but you will find the wise among yourselves. Now, whoever remembers, let him recite me a psalm. Not the twenty- third. I want the hundred and fourth, and leave out that stupid part at the end where the sinners are consumed from the earth. Shalom shalom, Saviour! No, Redeemer. We are Cnidori and we spoke Cnidri before we reached this place in our wanderings, but we learned the language of Rav Zahar because he cared for us when we were lost and starving. He became very ill and shut himself away because he said he was not fit to look upon. The food he helped us store is eaten and the Unds are ravaging us. No, master. Only what grows from the ground. First we will skin one of these to make tents for shelter. It rains every hour. Tell us what name pleases you if you offended by the ways we address you. You are a machine of deliverance and so we will call you Golem. No, we are afraid of it. Then how can we reach Zahar, Golem, even if he is still alive? The Unds have surely heard you, because they are coming back again. We would do that, Golem, but we would also like to give comfort to our Teacher. We do not wish to be b'nei Avraham, but b'nei Zohar, because we say to you, Og ha-Golem, and to you, Rav Zohar, that because Zahar has been as a father to us we feel as sons to him. Rav Zahar, we have come to tell you that we have sworn to worship your God. But we may worship the God who created such a man as you, and such teachings as you have taught us, and those men who made the great Golem. We will do whatever you advise, Golem. It is true that our ancestors worshipped a Being and made sacrifices, but none of that was done after Zahar gave us help. We were afraid he and his God would hold us in contempt. But it is a great sin in his eyes, I doubt that he will ever care for us again. Come quickly! Binyamin is doing nidset! Only come quickly! That is nidset, Golem. We thought, we thought that all of the gods were angry with us- our old god for leaving him and our new one for having worshipped the old- and that a sacrifice would take away the anger of all. No! What good is such a God if even Zahar does not listen to Him and forgive us? Then, Golem, we will demand no more, but die among the Unds! No, Golem, no! How can you leave us now when we need you so greatly? But we have so much to learn. We do not know how to use the radio, and we want to tell Galactic Federation that Zohar is dead, and of all he and you have done for us. Nevertheless we will learn! Og ha-Golem, why must you waste yourself? We have so much to discover about the God we worship and the men who have worshipped Him! Indeed he taught us the Law and the Prophets, but he did not teach us the tongues of Aramaic or Greek, or Writings, or Mishna, or Talmud (Palestinian and Babylonian), or Tosefta, or Commentary, or- To keep it for others who may wish to know it when we are dead.