LET ME KNOW SAMUEL ZOHAR BEN REUVEN BEGELMAN DOCTOR OF MEDICINE AND WHAT IT MEANS THAT HE IS A JEW. I HAVE NOT BEEN INSTRUCTED so. He called Galactic Federation and said, MOD 0885 THE SPACE ASSIGNED FOR ME IS NOT PERMITTED. IT HAS BEEN PRE-EMPTED BY A BEING CALLED Nutrivol SENDING POWDERED DRINKS TO TAU CETI INNER WORLDS. I AM CHECKING. YES. THAT COMPANY WENT INTO RECEIVERSHIP ONE STANDARD YEAR AGO. I SUSPECT SMUGGLING AND BRIBERY. I WILL WARN. THE SHIP WILL BE GONE BY THEN MOD 08 WHAT AM I TO DO? INVESTIGATE, MOD 842. HOW AM I TO DO THAT? USE YOUR LOGIC. I am not in the way. I am to board ship for Pardes and it is against the law for this cargo to take my place. Are fruit drinks for desert worlds now made without fructose but with dextroamphetamine sulfate, diacetylmorphine, 2-acetyl-tetrahydrocannabinol- I was ordered by Galactic Federation to board this ship for Tau Ceti IV, and you may consult the legal department of Colonial Relations, but I will not be moved. Go away you savage creature! I am not a saviour, men of Pardes, Are you speaking your native tongue? Now Zohar has put up a barrier and shut you out- and I am not a redeemer- but what has happened to that man? There are some here that will ravage you no longer. Do you eat the flesh of these ones? I am not your master. See if there is food to gather here and I will try to reach Zohar. I have no name but a designation: O/ G5/842. I am only a machine. This forcefield is so noisy it probably has a malfunction. It is not wise to touch it. I doubt even radio would cross that. I will cry out, Cnidori. Go to a distance and cover your ears, because my voice can pierce a mountain of lead ore. Samuel Zohar ben Reuven Begelman tum off your forcefield for I have come from Galactic Federation to help you!!! I believe he is alive, but cannot reach the control. Let us in, zohar, or the Unds will destroy all of your people!!! Now put up your shield!!! Wait here and feed yourselves. zohar? You know you are the last Jew in the known universe, Rav Zohar. There is no one but me to say prayers for you. Yes, master. I would have told that to Galactic Federation, but they would not believe me, not being Jews. I was made new again and given orders. My growth in logic now allows me to understand that I cannot be of use to you in exactly the way Galactic Federation wished, but I can still make you more comfortable. The Cnidori needed me to save them from the Unds when you shut them out, and they tried to call me Saviour, Redeemer, master; I refused because I am a machine, but I let them call me Golem because I am a machine of deliverance. Shmuel Zohar hen Reuven Begelman, why do you allow those help- less ones to call you Rav Zohar and speak in your language? My designation is O/G5/842. Yes, zohar. That one your Rabbi Moshe killed in the land of Kana'an with all his people for no great provocation. But O is the height of my oxygen tolerance in Solthree terms; I cannot work at gravities of less than five newtons, and eight four two is my model number. Now Zohar, if you demand it I will turn myself off and be no more. But the people are within your gate; some of them have been killed and they must still be cared for. I am sure your spirit will free itself in peace, zohar. As for me, my shuttle is broken, I am wanted nowhere else, and I will rust in Pardes. Zohar believes you must learn to take care of yourselves, against the Unds and on your world, because you cannot now depend on him. Zohar, you have taught the Cnidori so well that now they are capable of saying the prayers you long for so greatly. Is there a way in which that can be made permissible? Yes, Zohar. They are sentient beings. What is there to prevent it? I am not a man or woman either and though I know the Law I am ignorant in experience. I was thinking merely of prayers that God might listen to in charity or appreciation. I did not mean to upset you. I am not fulfilling my duties. You are nearly ready to rise from your bed and feed yourself, Zohar. Perhaps when you feel more of a man you may reconsider. I am stabilizing the land in order to grow crops of oilseed, lugwort and greenpleat, which are nourishing both to you and the Cnidori. I doubt Galactic Federation is going to give us anything more, and I also wish to store supplies. If other wandering tribes of Cnidori cross this territory it is better to share our plenty than fight over scarcity. zohar, these Cnidori have decided to take Hebrew names, and they are calling themselves by letters: Aleph, Bet, Gimmel, and when those end at Tauf, by numbers: Echod, Shtaim, Sholosh. This does not seem correct to me but they will not take my word for it. Will you help them? I believe we must redesign the forcefield to keep the Unds out of the cultivated areas. Perhaps we have enough components in Stores or I can learn to make them. I expected so, Zohar. They know that you are ben Reuven and they have accepted your language and the names of your people. Is this not reasonable? You are the only authority left. You have taught them. I have pushed for nothing except to make you well. I taught nothing. You are more alive and healthy than you have long been, zohar, and you have people who love you. Can you not let them do so? Do not trouble Rav zohar with demands he cannot fulfill, no matter how much you desire to honour him. Later I will ask him to think if there is a way he can do as you wish, within the Law. It does not seem like a cooking vessel. Perhaps it is a casing in which they dispose of their dead. Both zohar and his God have done imperfect acts. But now I will leave him alone, because he is very troubled. What is that? No, no! No! You shall make no sacrifices! Why were you doing such a terrible thing, Binyamin? That confounds my logic somewhat. All gods are One, and the One forgives whoever asks. Now come. I believe I hear the Unds again, and we need shelter close to home until we can build a wider one. The man is sick and old, and he is not thinking clearly either, while you have demanded much of him. Truly you are an outrageous people, But I am only a machine. Zohar, you need not answer, but you must listen. Your people tell me they have made no sacrifices since they knew you. But Binyamin who longs to call himself your son, has tried to sacrifice himself to placate whatever gods may forgive his people, and would have died if I had not prevented him. After that they were ready to let the Unds kill them. I prevented that also, but they will not speak to me, or to you if you do not forgive them. I cannot do any more here and I have nothing further to say to you. Goodbye. To the store-room, to turn myself off. I have always said I was no more than a machine, and now I have reached the limit of my logic and my usefulness. Out by the field near the entrance, you will see them when the lightning flashes. He must tend to his spirit for himself, b'nei Avraham. My work is done. Zohar, do not weep. You will make yourself ill. They will forgive you anything- but if you ask you will only hurt yourself more deeply. And I make no judgments. If I must, then Zohar, I judge you a member of humanity who has saved more people than would be alive without him. I think you could not wish better. Yes, I believe I did. Surely my time is come. You are not children. Zohar told you that you must manage for yourselves. I doubt that Galactic Federation is interested. I will stay for that, but no longer. Now. Zohar taught you all he knew, and that was a great deal. But why must you learn all that? Here is Mishna, given by word of mouth from Scribe to Scribe for a thousand years. Fifth Division, Nezikin, which is Damages; Baba Metzia: the Middle Gate: 'If two took hold of a garment and one said, 'I found it,' and the other said, '/ found it,' or one said, 'I bought it,' and the other said, '/ bought it,' each takes an oath that he claims not less than half and they divide it...