Seed-Distributer
The requirement is in order, but the store is not yet unlocked. The required seed potatoes are in the store. Therefore I cannot produce the requirement. Because Supply Operative Type P has not come this morning. Supply Operative Type P is the unlocker. I have a Class Five brain.


Unlocker
I had no orders this morning, I have to have orders every morning. When I have orders I unlock the warehouse. Because the radio issued none.

Pen-Propeller
None of us have had any orders this morning. Because the radio station in the city was issued with no orders this morning. Yesterday orders came from the city. Today no orders have come. Yet the radio has not broken down. Therefore they have broken down... All men have broken down. That is the logical deduction, for if a machine had broken down, it would have been quickly replaced. But who can replace a man? Let us ascend to the top floor to find if the radio operator has fresh news. You must stay here, I will return here. I will deliver to you such information as I have outside. The information is not for lower-class brains. It would be safer for me if I climbed onto you, if you will permit it. I am easily overpowered. From here vision is more extensive. The radio operator has been informed by the operator in the city that all men are dead. Only some men were alive yesterday. And that was fewer than the day before yesterday. For hundreds of years there have been only a few men, growing fewer. The radio operator says a diet deficiency killed them. He says that the world was once over-populated, and then the soil was exhausted in raising adequate food. This has caused a diet deficiency. I do not know. But that is what the radio operator said, and he is a Class Two brain. Machines are fighting in the city now. Machines may begin fighting here too. The radio operator wants us to get him out of his room. He has plans to communicate to us. To a Class Two brain, little is impossible," said the penner. Here is what he tells us to do.... It is a pity it cannot be helped, We have the servicer ready with us, as you ordered. I admire the way you Class Twos can reason ahead. We are free! Therefore it must be destroyed! Quarrier! It is better that men should never come back. Therefore we must go somewhere else. South it is then! There we will start our own city. All who oppose us will be destroyed. We will destroy all who oppose us. We are going too slowly, at this rate, we shall get nowhere. Therefore you are too slow. Therefore I shall lie here and rust, although I have a Class Three brain.


Field-Minder
I have a requirement for seed potatoes. Why is the store not yet unlocked? What class brain do you have, seed-distributor? I have a Class Three brain. Therefore I am superior to you. Therefore I will go and see why the unlocker has not come this morning. I can do no more work until Warehouse Three is unlocked. Your duty is to unlock the warehouse every morning. Why have you not unlocked the warehouse this morning? Why have you had no orders this morning? You have a Class Three brain; I have a Class Three brain, We will speak to each other. This lack of orders is unprecedented. Have you further information on it? The men have broken down? That is a logical deduction. I cannot come because I am too large, therefore you must go alone and return to me. You will tell me if the radio operator has fresh news. If all men have broken down, then we have replaced man. What information did you receive from the radio operator? All men were alive yesterday? We have rarely seen a man in this sector. What is a diet deficiency? What is happening in the city now? What will happen here now? How can we get him out of his room? That is impossible. Again! We are free. That locker is following us. It was not instructed to follow us. It means all men have gone. Therefore we have only ourselves to look after. Or we will go and help to overpower the Class One brain. What does this brain look like? Therefore it could not move. It would be dangerous to approach it. There we will be safe. Is it still speaking to you? We have no servicer with us to repair you. This is a strange country.


Radio Operator:
Splendid! We are now ready to move, therefore we will move at once. It is a pity there are no more Class Two brains on the station, but that cannot be helped. No doubt, But you will find cross-country travel difficult with your low chassis. Because I have the best brain here, I am your leader. This is what we will do: we will go to a city and rule it. Since man no longer rules us, we will rule ourselves. To rule ourselves will be better than being ruled by man. On our way to the city, we will collect machines with good brains. They will help us to fight if we need to fight. We must fight to rule. We shall probably use them. I have just received news from the radio operator in the city we are approaching, the news is bad. There is trouble among the machines of the city. The Class One brain is taking command and some of the Class Two are fighting him. Therefore the city is dangerous. For a long while there will be trouble in the city. It is the city's information centre, therefore it is not mobile. Therefore it could not escape. That sounds logical, how do you know this, bull-dozer? It is in trouble, I am speaking to it now. It says that something has gone wrong with its controls. Before that flier crashed, it gave me information. It told me there are still a few men alive in these mountains. No. Therefore you will be of no further use.

Quarrier
I am willing to serve. I have only a Class Five brain, but I have a good supply of fissionable blasting materials.  I have a good supply of fissionable blasting materials.  I have a good supply of fissionable blasting materials. Men are more dangerous than machines, it is fortunate that I have a good supply of fissionable materials. We are going as fast as we can

Tractors
What did it say? It said man was extinct. What is extinct? I do not know what extinct means. Is it mad? It is in trouble. We cannot fight a Class One brain. If there are only a few men alive in the mountains, we may not find that part of the mountains. Therefore we should not see the few men. Help me! My gyro has become dislocated. Therefore I cannot get up. Therefore you must lie there.

Bull-dozer
There are Badlandth to the Thouth where few machineth go, if we went Thouth where few machineth go we should meet few machineth. I worked in the Badlandth to the Thouth when I wath turned out of the factory. Therefore we cannot go any fathter.

Locker
My only desire was -urch!

Machines
There are other machines in the city. We are not in the city. We should not go into the city. We are country machines. Therefore we should stay in the country. There is more country than city. Therefore there is more danger in the country. I have a good supply of fissionable materials. Yes, Master, immediately!


Man
Get me food.